chain on it's been a while working live
we're live do you want to talk about
that or no the same thing did you
everyone sent me the clip and and I
think you said something about taking a
knee in the middle of a gunfight and he
said yeah that was betting he's a
fucking Savage what did you do that what
happened refresh my memory we're in
Afghanistan right and the guys I'm with
the Afghan soldiers them with get
ambushed by the Taliban and I just went
down on one knee and carried on talking
uh war journalists are very fascinating
people to me because oftentimes you guys
move towards the gunfire with the camera
to get the shot and you know I've talked
to folks before who have worked as a war
journalist and they say you almost don't
think you're you you're you you you've
so concentrated on getting a shot you
don't think about the fact that you
might get shot it's a safety mechanism
yeah you think you're protected by
looking at it on a screen rather than
realizing it's it's actually happening
in real life right now that's stupid
it's so strange they might try to keep
this like go like a fist from your face
perfect there we go
I was with them the US Marines for
operation most Iraq like the biggest
operation of the Afghan war and I was a
town called Marja that was controlled by
the Taliban and I'm at up it's one group
of Marines I tasted love got the Marines
cuz that if you were willing to run the
same risks of then they'd let you film
everything and their mission was to get
dropped by helicopter in the middle of
this town at 3:00 a.m. on day one and
then just fight their way out from the
middle of the town and as soon as the
Sun came up all of the speakers on the
mosques were saying the infidels are
here the infidels are here get your
weapons get your weapons and general
McChrystal had introduced this rule of
courageous restraint saying you're not
allowed to shoot unless your shutter or
unless you see someone preparing a
hostile act and the Taliban had figured
out how to use this so I'm sitting in
this field with about twenty eight
Marines watching the Taliban drop off
guys in buildings all around us with
their weapons wrapped in blankets
knowing the Marines can't shoot
so they're setting up the perfect ambush
and as soon as we started walking across
the field it started and it's like
nothing I've ever heard or experienced
before we ran and dived into a ditch the
guys either side of me got got hit one
of them badly that guy was killed on the
other side of the field almost
straightaway I was there alone filming
it myself and because I was watching the
whole thing through this tiny little
screen on my camera it felt like I
wasn't you know in as much danger as as
they were and I was so afraid and the
adrenalin runs out after a while and you
just become numb and you I mean then I'd
resign myself I thought we were all
going to get killed we were completely
surrounded and outnumbered no RPGs and
snipers I watched it back and the
footage is pretty good you know I'm
changing shots and zooming in and focus
you know heart I think focusing on that
helps me help me you know how did you
get out of it I mean to this day I'm not
even sure I think the Marines just
started identifying Taliban targets and
picking them off and then the Taliban
ran out of ammunition and the actual
ambush lasted like six seven hours of
non-stop fighting yeah and then we ran
into a an old building which is which
became their base for six months just in
a you know abandoned building and they
shelled that all night and the fighting
carried on the whole next day but but
that first day in the ditch I remember
saying to myself you're an idiot you
never say no to anything you always just
you know join up and sign up for these
insane trips and if you survive today
and you're probably not going to survive
if you do survive today don't ever go
out with these idiots ever again and the
next day they said oh we're going to
launch this operation take this mask and
I went out was I'm on again it's for a
good night's sleep yeah well it was even
a good night's sleep but yeah but we
survived a few you I mean I remember I
started doing this you had an idea of
what what good odds and bad what odds
were and that you know you're willing to
accept lesser and lesser odds as time
goes on because nothing happens and it's
it's easy to get to get careless and
stupid that's a real thing with violence
right until you've actually experienced
it firsthand personally being enacted on
yourself it almost doesn't seem real
even when bullets a sniffing by your
head
is that a just a weird
compartmentalization thing that people
are capable of is that what it is I
think it is I mean I think with me it's
slightly different I mean I took part in
this MDMA therapy for PTSD recently and
one of the one of the revelations that
came out as a result of that was I I got
into this 20 years ago thinking I could
help people in Syria Palestine Congo
wherever by raising awareness about
about what's happening after a while you
lose faith in the idea so then you start
feeling a bit guilty and think am I just
here for my own benefit am I just here
to profit in some way and not actually
helping whatsoever so I think that guilt
made me think you're not important
enough to have something as dramatic as
getting shot or blown up happen to you I
know that sounds so stupid and ever
thought that until you know it came out
as part of this therapy but I think I
really had started thinking that so the
the MDMA therapy made you sort of look
at your rational perspective like what
what how are you rationalizing your your
time in these very very dangerous places
in in ways that I hadn't even thought
about so it was going on your
subconscious it was so absolutely yeah
you're sort of making these agreements
and arrangements in order to be able to
still do that yeah and if it continued
then it was gonna end badly thank you
like you know there was there was only
one way it was gonna end and I I hadn't
hadn't seen that coming at all I hadn't
I hadn't connected the dots like that
that's all how did you wind up stopping
cheers Cheers I mean this is the big I
haven't stopped and I don't I'm gonna
stop I did the MDMA therapy thinking
this would give me an excuse to stop
right I thought that's what I wanted
three quarters of the way through the
first session I was planning the next
program I mean people say you're an
adrenaline junkie that's not true at all
it's not a thrill to be there it's
horrible to be there as an endurance
test every single time but I still think
it's it's important do you think it's
important because the information that
you can get to people there's no other
way they can get it yeah I mean I wonder
what impact that has these days but you
hope that it hasn't impact or everything
has an impact I'm sure it has an impact
but I mean the example I was using this
some of my colleagues have been broken
by this is is you know the Syrian war
has been very well covered every crime
has been very well documented you know
often with video footage of exactly the
crime being carried out has it made any
difference whatsoever I'm not sure the
Syrian one is one where you hear you
hear rational people say that like Assad
is not our enemy and that well how do
you what do you feel about that I mean I
think we're dealing with the legacy of
the Iraq and the Afghanistan war in that
even if you want to help what's the
point you can't you're only gonna make
it worse I think a lot of people feel
that way and I think that leads some
people to think Assad is not a good guy
he probably does have the blood of
hundreds of thousands on his hands but
we should deal with him anyway because
that's better than Iraq or Afghanistan
because when we do get rid of a leader
like Libya with Gaddafi or Iraq with
Hussein that what happens is you get
this power vacuum and then it becomes
far worse we've tried every model we
tried invading Afghanistan taking over
we trying to rebuild the entire culture
and Armed Forces and government
ourselves that has failed miserably
tried Iraq Libya tried leading from the
back you know limited intervention
hoping that the guys on the ground could
do the fighting for us and then Syria
we've tried almost no intervention
whatsoever and all three have failed so
I think now you've got people I mean the
thing I always think most people would
say we should have intervened in Rwanda
I think almost everyone would say I mean
Bill Clinton would say that's his
biggest regret I think in this
presidency most people would say we
should have intervened in Rwanda
I think if Rwanda happened tomorrow
you'd have a lot of people here saying
it's not worth it we won't help we can't
make the situation better so why even
try well it's so hard when you look at
the rest of the world and you see these
horrific conditions and you see warlords
and power and you see atrocities being
committed and or sitting over here and
you know in the valley watching on
internet and drinking Starbucks you know
oh it's just Trump gossip yeah I mean
well more so yeah
American cut American foreign coverage
was never was never great no now
it's almost gone I mean Yemen we'll see
I mean because of the Khashoggi murder
maybe maybe something can happen with
Yemen cuz it and there is a lot we can
do there cuz we are you know directly
supporting one side it almost seems like
what you were talking about but you know
far lesser extent the the feeling that
you get when you're in these war zones
it's almost so it's not real that you're
you're covering it through this this
lens so you're immune from it it almost
feels like we view the the massive
conflicts of the world that way they're
like we're watching it on television
we're seeing it on our phones or our
laptops it's not it's real I know it's
real it is a it's a real issue it's not
real like in terms if it's not knocking
on my door
ya know it's almost like we feel about
it that way yeah
and the numbers as well I mean you know
in Syria it could be eight hundred
thousand dead oh the people really think
what that means what does 800,000 that
actually mean right do they when I think
with certain numbers you you just they
just become it just becomes digits and
it just doesn't make sense yeah doesn't
uh you look if you hear five guys get
killed in a shootout you go off five
guys are dead yeah you start thinking
about it you hear 500,000 people died on
the other side of the planet it's almost
almost doesn't register yeah but for you
it registers yeah yeah and you know I
mean the reason I started doing this you
know when I was a kid as soon as I
started reading about these situations
and and you know when I when I remember
reading that in my government the
British government was arming you know
often the wrong side you know in these
conflicts I remember thinking how is
it's not front-page news right how is
everyone not talking about this every
single day and I still feel like that
now even though I'm clearly out of step
with you know most of the population but
well your soul immersed is it hard for
you when you come back and you see the
Trump gossip and all the nonsense and
all the things that we engage in on a
daily basis here in America that are
really trivial at best I mean you know
is it hard for you to mean you you get
to see the worst shit happening in the
world all the time is it hard for you to
relate yeah I mean you know I mean one
of the one of the main symptoms I had of
the PTSD from covering this for so long
was was it was numbness to physical
danger when I
there but it was numbness when I got
back home mmm so you'd come back and you
know at one point used to think if I
come back with with the footage I have
of whatever conflict it's gonna have
some kind of impact it's gonna create
some kind of ripple when you come back
and you think it's that's gonna be
there's gonna be nothing the film is
going to go out as a few people are
gonna tweet a few people are gonna you
know send me a message that that's it
are we in a information overload state I
mean you you if you go back to you know
the early days of the internet Facebook
it was going to be the free flow of
information you know no borders it's I
mean I don't think we can doubt it it's
made us dumber
now that the infinite this there's so
much it's not just how much there is
it's also how much bad stuff you know
gets traction and how much really
important stuff doesn't get traction I
mean one of the great things about about
the Trump ear is some of the best
writing you know I think for four years
but how many people are reading it yeah
I would like to know how many people
read man tiny bees or articles yeah from
the beginning to the end yeah yeah I
really would like to see that when you
think about the amount of time that guy
puts into an article yes it's such a
strange time because it doesn't it
doesn't seem like any other time it
doesn't seem like any other time in
terms of our consumption of information
or how much information we consuming and
it it's like the the sheer volume of it
is it's almost it's almost
insurmountable like the sheer volume of
data that comes in every day it doesn't
go away there's just new data comes in
it just keeps coming in and piling uh
yeah you know it's like porn right like
you never could watch all the porns yeah
this it's not possible like but they
keep making them yeah you know what I
mean and like uh you open up pornhub and
you go warth of how many of them how
many of them are there
yeah and that's you know that is really
data I mean but then all these crazy
Internet videos and stories and there's
just every day it's something new it's
constant but but you'd have thought that
would that would have led to a situation
where some things are indisputable right
because there is video evidence but but
it's the opposite of the case
thing is verifiable now no matter how
much evidence exists my concern is that
that's leading into this trend of deep
fakes and the this new audio editing
ability that they have - they can take
your voice and your your mouth and put
some stuff in there that you never said
yeah and you know it could be noose I
mean you could do that it could be Assad
it could be Obama it could be anyone
it's so strange and it might get
debunked in the New York Times the next
day you don't care how many people are
reading that very people even aware of
it yeah very few yeah yeah everything
that's taken out of context no one reads
the full context anything that is a
small video clip no one's gonna see the
fold and I think that's what what Trump
is master yes he doesn't care if he gets
taken apart the next day in The New
Yorker
he knows his base aren't reading the New
Yorker they don't even aware of that
article well it doesn't seem to be
bothering him either he's one of the
rare guys I've been paying attention to
him a lot over the last few months he
doesn't seem to be getting older like a
lot of them do like it's the concern
that makes them old you know that's the
stress of the job that makes him all he
seems to be sleeping in late
I got traveling and I come back and I
read the headline you know Trump's
having a meltdown screaming in the White
House and I see him on TV he looks as
happy as a pig in shit I don't believe
any of that shit they write I think they
write things like that I think yells at
people but I think yelled at people when
he was a real estate mogul and I think
you know he wants to get shit done he's
a billionaire he likes progress he likes
to make money he doesn't like
incompetence yells at people I don't
know it's just it's you I feel like
we're at this cusp of something very
strange happening like we're in the
middle of it right now but we're at the
cusp of something very strange we're all
it would take is one massive world event
one mat2 to completely remap how we we
view each other and how we view things
it's very disconcerting to me if this it
feels like without that one big world
event we're not that far away from that
right now
right here a parallel universe is right
now exists on things that you would have
thought everyone can accept as a basic
fact like what you know I mean Syria
yeah you know the white helmets there
there are some fairly serious people
saying the white helmets are you know
some kind of media front for al-qaeda or
others would you explain the white
helmets for people so when there's a
when there's a bombing and a building
collapses they go in and drag people out
and get their medical attention as quick
as possible and people think that
they're somehow or another were involved
in it they're a front yeah and that the
footage is faked in order to drum up
sympathy for the rebel-held areas oh I
mean that's I've heard you know serious
people say that serious people yeah
not-not-not loons on Facebook I've heard
you know I'm sure analyst sir yeah yeah
yeah I mean I mean Seymour Hersh I think
has walked it back a little bit since
but he said that in the early days why
do you think he believed it
I read really interesting article about
him just a few days ago where was it I
forget what it was it was you know the
not expose but a really good look at
look look at him and I think he's just
spent his career believing rightly that
the government lies about all kinds of
things and that's got him into a point
where he thinks well they always like no
matter what mm-hmm
so and it's happened to a lot of
journalists Robert Fisk Seymour Hersh
Martha Gellhorn when my favorite war
correspondents of all time I reread some
of her stuff recently and and the first
batch of war reporting she did I think
is the best war reporting I've ever read
Spanish Civil War Vietnam and then she
spent 25 years writing novels and then
later on wrote about I believe it as the
Yom Kippur War and was denying that
massacres have happened and saying you
know our Arabs like they always like
there was no massacre and we now know
there was a massacre
well there were massacres in the
aftermath of these of these wars so I
don't know what happens I mean maybe if
you just do this for too long you just
become so cynical that you're open to
these things but it's yeah I'm amazed
that Seymour Hersh is open to that idea
so when the the very people that are
calling it the very people that have
boots on the ground and that are in
these war zones are calling these things
when they become cynical and they become
jaded that's when it gets really really
sketchy and and we rely so heavily on
people like you like there's I'm not
going over there
you know Jamie's not going over there
look at them you know I'm saying I mean
in oh and you wouldn't be able to really
get like I know people that have gone to
Venezuela and they come back and they go
I don't know what the fuck is going on
over there I don't know who to believe I
don't understand it
Venezuela is a very strange one and I
get messages all the time and you know
I've had a be Martin who goes over there
and she has one take on it and I have
other people that I talked to that have
a different take on it and I do not know
I don't know who to believe and I think
you'd have to go over there and do you
see diff to spend a lot of time to try
to figure this out and it would have to
be the entire focus of your life to
really try to parse it out I think
that's true of a lot of conflicts I mean
one of the one of the one of the
drawbacks of doing what I do is I'm
covering seven or eight things at once
so yeah I feel like I'm not expert
enough in even Afghanistan where I've
covered I've covered that more than any
other and but but if anybody's an
interesting one because it's there's
there's such a left-right divide on that
and if you support the opposition then
you find yourself alongside John Bolton
and Donald Trump yeah which means that a
lot of people are gonna automatically
attack you right right automatically
yeah even if it's correct and and I
think it's you know you we can say
without a doubt that Maduro has
destroyed the economy there Maduro has
imprisoned beaten killed journalists
there is a movement there that do want
genuine elections but some people will
say well just because George Bush in
another area or John Bolton and nasarah
support the opposition therefore the
opposition must be illegitimate and the
information coming out must be must be
false and I wish people did rely on on
people who actually went there but yes I
feel that I feel that they rely on the
you know the guy behind the glass desk
on the on the news when they were
allowed opinion we're all where people
are actually there well we still have
this idea in our head that the the
person who's reading the news is the
authority you know that Don Lemon has
the inside scoop or whoever it is you
know and I think it used to be that
those guys would spend 20 or 30 years
traveling and then that get the cushy
job behind the class desk in this union
now it seems like you can go straight to
the cushy job behind the glass desk well
we just need someone who's relatable who
can read a teleprompter you know who
fits the profile they're looking for
whether it's Fox News or CNN you know
and also the information is there you
know there are fantastic documentaries
articles being written about all of
these conflicts right people aren't
reading them well with something like
Venezuela that the real problem is you
have two sides you have two different
versions of what's happening and it's if
you're if you're not educated in that
country and you don't understand their
politics it's very difficult to figure
out who's telling the truth yeah same
with Syria yeah yeah and you know I I
agree with you that I don't I don't
necessarily think we're getting stupider
or Dumber in this country or in the
world in general because the Internet
but we're definitely getting weirder in
our perceptions of actual world events
and I think every time something had
like mass shootings for instance like
New Zealand every time one of these
horrific tragedies takes place you see
more and more division i watch people
fight over it on twitter people blaming
left-wing people people blaming
right-wing people people trying to find
some reason and this one is particularly
disturbing because it appears that at
least one of the guys I don't know their
names I don't know if they even release
if they withheld the names of these guys
who have done this I haven't seen the
names I thought in there one of them
seems like he's trolling like he he
Thank You T PI and and said that Candice
Owens was his biggest inspiration and
he's doing that I guess we could agree
some people are saying that that okay
sign is a white power sign I know we had
this dispute with Tim pool where he was
saying I guess it is a game that some
people do play what does it call the
game the look I don't know there's a
name there's some game where if you look
under the table you see someone doing
that there a lot of punch you or
something something stupid like that I
saw this Stephen Miller photo where he's
doing up his blazer and supposedly doing
the white know there was a woman in
court - that was doing that where she
had her hand like this and people were
saying that but that's what people are
talking about rather than right which is
ridiculous like AHA evidence
evidence but this guy in custody is
clearly making that symbol clearly so
like what is he you know he's like some
troll murderer some troll mass murderer
he's both he's both fucking with
everybody and a cold-blooded ruthless
killer of people that were praying yeah
I mean I think let's not lose sight of
that you have to have some serious
hatred to walk into a mosque and gun
down
yeah he's 32 people in seven people the
other way you know that's yeah it's
horrific across the board
top to bottom it's it's horrific but
it's also one of those things where like
we we see so many of these now that
we're starting to get numb whether it's
a Jewish synagogue whether it's a you
know a Muslim temple whether it's a gay
club or whether whatever it is it's like
you see so many of these mass murders
now that's just whether it's a school or
a movie theater it's like fuck man it's
just it all like you were talking about
when you're filming the news you know
you're there you're watching the bullets
fly by you hear them fly by your head
and you are just watching it through the
lens we're many many many many levels
removed from that and we're sitting here
trying to figure out what to do and
we're not there we're not we're the both
and the people that are there where the
bullets take place they try to give you
a description of it and even they barely
can comprehend what happened but also as
you said we're going straight to the
argument about who to blame right you
follow and you know rather than yes
I mean people spent as much time as they
spend arguing on Twitter reading yes you
know I know people say fake news you
know that there are people who you can
trust if they write a ten thousand white
piece on Syria for The New Yorker for
example like you know that they're
they're being fact-check and maybe it
would be better if there was a website
where you we curated all of like the
bulletproof that's a terrible way to
describe it but you know the locks
rock-solid investigative journalism that
are a hundred percent ethical that you
could completely rely on for an accurate
assessment of what's happening
because it is difficult for people and
when people they rely on biased websites
which many of them do whether it's bias
to the left or bias to the right things
get even more money and there's so many
of them it's so easy to get so easy to
reinforce your confirmation bias with
whatever you know whether it's left-wing
or right-wing just find that website
read the comments these are my people
they think like me and especially now it
used to be a few conservative leaning
you'd read to Wall Street you're a
liberal leading New York Times now no
matter how far off the scale you are you
can find a pretty professional-looking
website yeah so we'll write a story
backing up yeah you're prejudiced and
people aren't looking at a story
thinking okay I want to find out what
happened here yeah they're thinking I
know what my gut feeling tells me I need
to find a hat not even a story a
headline yeah that justify is my gut
feeling about this and that's as far as
it seems to go now you as a journalist
as a person who risks their life to
bring this information to people how
does this make you feel I mean there's
this part of the reason why you needed
to do that MDMA therapy not just the
fact that you were you know you're you
really are without better useful without
a better term shell-shocked right I mean
you're you're they're thought that
you're there yeah
there's something that comes out of that
that's got to be very very difficult to
recover from and overcome yeah but
there's also the fact that you're going
over there and bringing this shit back
and it doesn't seem to people don't seem
to give a fuck and that used to be what
kept you going is is you thought like
some of my work is gonna make some kind
of difference and when that starts to
fade and you start to think that's not
gonna happen that's I'm sure your work
makes a lot of difference to the people
that pay attention to it that I think
we're we're overwhelmed by bullshit I
think it's everywhere there's and what I
mean bullshit I mean like nonsense yeah
you know Kim Kardashian's psoriasis is
in the front page of the CNN or
something like that you know it's not
nonsense to her but you know what I mean
like there's there's stuff that people
are concentrating on it's like Jesus
Christ
it's
I thought one of our one of our Doc's on
HBO if it got 4 million views I think
that would be considered very good
viewing figures yeah in the country of
360 million people yeah
well it's very difficult to get people
to watch documentaries on real-world
events you get them to watch
documentaries on like a sex call from
Oregon or someone yeah like wild wild
country that probably got 10 million
yeah yeah no it's just I don't know man
you know this New Zealand thing really
had me rattled I and you know was also
strange people like seemed to demand a
response they demand people in the
public eye to talk about it and you know
say thoughts and prayers or something
like that but as soon as you say
thoughts and prayers they'll say impress
here we've had that for years and rows
actually happen it's yeah yeah it's um
it's very stripped but like the I don't
know if they their concern that you're
not horrified they want to make sure you
are like who the fuck isn't like how
could you not be I don't understand this
or is it just they're just frustrated
confuse themselves or just lashing out
at any target they can find or anyone
they can find and also you know I mean I
know the footage is available of you
know this guy's the head cam as he's he
shot everybody but but footage like that
has been widely available for a long
time now no and I think that's that's
had a massive knowing effect I mean you
know the picture of the Syrian refugee
washing up on the beach you know it felt
like that was gonna have an effect it
felt like that was the picture that was
really gonna gonna change things no I'm
not sure it did it might not for a
couple days yeah and then more news yeah
I mean not you know just to be not
completely pessimistic that when you're
doing stuff with Vice and HBO you do get
young people reaching out to you and
saying I had no idea yeah I want to be a
photographer or a doctor or maybe that's
an effect that's gonna be felt down the
room I don't know it feels like there
are there is a generation of people
growing up thinking I'm not gonna play
by the normal set of rules like I am
gonna actually try and do something
about this I think I really do believe
you do have an effect I think vice
certainly has an effect I think a lot of
this has an effect I think it's
very difficult to feel that effect if
you're not experiencing it personally I
mean to just look out onto the landscape
and say how much of an effect is this
having on people it's hard like where
are you getting the feedback from how
are you how are you gauging whether or
not this is changing people's
perceptions well sometimes the feedback
you do get is is on Twitter well get a
few lunatics will say oh you fainted so
then you think wow really having no
impact but I think that's an argument
for just not reading the comment well
there's a little bit of that and then
you know I had Rene to rest on recently
and she's done a lot of work covering
all these various Russian troll farms
and how they so how they essentially
organize conflict online and you know
they set up these things where you have
like a pro Texas movement and they set
them up across the street from a probe
Muslim movement and they do it on
purpose and then they have these
pro-lgbt
movement things online that they
organized to attack certain people in
certain groups to diminish certain
aspects and divide parts of the
Democratic Party it's crazy yeah when
you hear about shit like that on top of
all this you're like well just the the
actual news itself is so difficult to
disseminate it's so difficult to figure
out what should I pay attention to
what's real and then you have this kind
of shit happening on top of that you're
like well fuck you know I know you know
there's a piece came out in the New York
card I don't mean just you keep on going
on about the New York about a piece came
how about the New Yorker today by Edie
Ceaser the friend of mine about brexit
and about Aaron banks and and and I have
read the piece yet but I know and I
always been working on and you know
there may be evidence that the Russians
directly influenced that the brexit vote
are the brexit voters really gonna look
at that article and think oh maybe I was
misled maybe I maybe I read 10 articles
on Facebook that that made me vote
wrongly you know how many people
actually have their minds open enough to
write consider that I mean it especially
with American politics it feels like
football yes if your player foul someone
of course it's not foul if your player
gets fouled as a play and foul he should
get sent off it's 100 percent blatant
tribalism
yeah yeah very few objective people very
few legitimate centrists everyone seems
to be digging their heels in on one side
or the other and it seems that a lot of
them have just picked team yeah I don't
I don't necessarily think they've
curated these opinions and cultivated
these ideas over many years of
soul-searching and reading and trying to
understand who they are and how they
interface with the world I don't think
that's happening all your family yes
team exactly has always been Republican
then suddenly saying maybe I'm gonna
vote fish instead of Trump it was like
coming out with something like it's that
big a deal your occupation you know
depending upon your occupation I mean
good luck finding a job intact if your
right wing you know good
good luck working in the arms industry
if your left one yeah yeah it's like
there's a weird weird time ban yeah you
know and I used I always used to read
about the Nixon era thinking that
must've been a fascinating time to be
alive yeah but then to actually live
through a similar period now you're
thinking it's not it's not fascinating
it's just it's just depressing every
single the Nixon thing it must have been
insanely difficult to get information
right you relied on Rolling Stone New
York Times whatever Washington Post
whatever newspaper was covering whatever
story you relied on all those but you
you couldn't get it any other way now
you can get it from everything I mean
there's people on the ground that are
tweeting about things and then they
become local celebrities so they become
sort of like temporary Internet
journalists slash celebrities yeah
fucking weird wait when you you your
perspective and your your life
experience is so much richer and deeper
in this than anybody else's do you think
there's a way to turn this around does
this going to eventually even out I hope
so um right now I don't see what that
what that looks like what that looks
like is the best way yeah to describe it
what does that look like I mean yeah my
attention span I think has been
shortened yeah I'll sit down to watch a
movie at home I'm within ten minutes I'm
reaching for my phone yes
I'm not a heart surgeon there's no
emergency that need you know right right
I might be checking Twitter again again
yeah it's a perfect storm yeah
distractions and we now know it is
addictive so yeah how you turn that
around though I mean it feels like
there's a little bit of a movement of
people to you know switch that stuff off
and just read a book or go for a walk
off but yeah you gotta have real
discipline though I mean you're fighting
against a fucking heroin addiction yeah
yeah it's crazy and everyone else is
addicted to oh yeah so you're not part
of the conversation if you don't know
man oh I walked into a restaurant the
other night and everyone was looking at
their phone no one was looking at each
other I'm like I'm in a movie yeah this
is a movie some poster public yeah yeah
I mean if if instead of looking at their
phones if everyone was just looking at
the sky you'd be like oh my god there's
a real problem these people are sick
yeah it's something wrong yeah you know
if everybody's just sitting there with
their hands open like staring up at this
guy and sitting next to each other
you're like these people are sick
there's something wrong they need help
instead they're they're looking at
nothing yeah they're checking their feed
over and over again someone's
complaining about Captain Marvel being a
woman yeah yeah yeah and all the experts
are they the ones getting followed on
there they're not who in our experts I
mean the experts in whatever you know
the ones really are we looking at them
you know it should be this this free
flow of information where you can find
out anything in your hand well what an
incredible thing yeah but it's it's not
that it's definitely not that well I
think there's two things I think one we
didn't earn it is just given to us right
it's not like we did all the work to
curate all this technology and put it
together and figure out how to implement
it and our deal no we just went to the
fucking Verizon store and picked up a
new phone I mean that's that's what most
people are doing yeah and because of
that it's almost like being like a trust
fund kid or something like that it's
just all given to you it's all handed to
you all this you know I felt I feel the
same way sometimes about weapons I feel
like the discipline required to learn
how to use one and create it and build
it and then understand the
responsibility of actually using it on a
human being
oh that's just out the window you just
go to the store and buy it you know
there's no requirements of you other
than you never killed anybody yet have
you ridden driven over anybody in your
car no if you robbed a bank no okay yeah
yeah you beating your wife no okay yeah
there's a guy yeah it's fucking strange
and this is a human being the the lack
of discipline and accountability that
that we have in this ultimate access to
all these things constantly and many of
them become just massive distractions
and yeah this in some ways is is the
Utopia that people have dreamed from
yeah things up for generations sure
we're free of war you're not going to
get attacked in your house tonight
you're not going to starve you have
everything you could possibly need so
you'd think we would become the perfect
human beings in the absence of all those
things that would have killed us in the
past or would have made life hard in the
past yeah and again that's that's what
we're doing well I don't think we
operate very well without legitimate
conflict without legitimate conflict in
terms of like actual things you need to
worry about like I when I used to live
in the East Coast one of the things I
was really noticeable was that when it
snowed out people were nicer they help
people when they're broken down the side
of the road they were nicer to each
other there was a sense of vulnerability
that we were all deeply entrenched in
this winter nature thing and we got to
work together otherwise we can't survive
yeah yeah you know and I think that
applies to all aspects of life that when
there's no real danger people become
extremely frivolous yeah yeah it's
amazing how quickly we become lazy and
complacent yeah and actually the
flipside of the negative stuff I was
saying earlier some good days I'll come
back from Yemen Syria wherever I'll go
out and get a cup of coffee coffee you
know I'll read the newspaper I'll get a
doughnut and I think man I'm the
luckiest man alive yeah right because
you do experience these horrific
environments you can appreciate it yeah
and the famine we can you know I mean
within you know a few hours here we
could have one of the best meals yeah
possible in the world you know it's you
know it's that's very incredible so one
good day that you couldn't you can you
can appreciate but again this is you
coming from these bad things so it puts
an imp
sorry yes trying to try to back you up
and say yeah if you're not if you're not
protected from all that stuff then you
can get to appreciate the basics again I
was on this trip and Prince of Wales we
camped out on this island it rained
every day for six days seven days
I mean we're soaked you're soaked
everything soaked your sleeping bag so
cue tent soaked everything came back
home and it felt so good like I never
felt the Sun like that before like the
Sun was just this like this magic love
glow that the sky was pouring down on
the city everything felt so happy and I
realized like you can't really
appreciate this until it's taken away
from you yeah it's taken away from you
then you understand what it is so then
you wonder when the kids of today grow
up right what are they gonna be like
when everything has just been at their
fingertips from day one forever forever
no mystery they don't understand
bullshitters either because like like
when I was a kid people used to lie
about shed and you really didn't know
you like no no he seems like he's full
of shit you couldn't just yet have to go
to an encyclopedia and you know and
actually read the information now you
can go okay what year did this happen
and you pull up your phone get the fuck
out yeah yeah yeah you know yeah people
lie about being in the Olympics they
lied about this they lied about that
yeah it's it's good in that we have
ultimate access to information for
people that use it and understand what
it is and appreciate it it is good but
to your point if there was a way to
actually filter yeah and say this is
verifiable this yeah this contains seven
things which are absolutely bullshit we
have no doubt about that whatsoever if
that could exist wonderful but I mean
folks have tried a few people have tried
it used to it still feels like you end
up being described to see you know being
on one side of the fight yeah I almost
feel like we need some sort of organized
discipline like maybe like mandatory
volunteer work cleaning up impoverished
communities or mandatory volunteer work
doing thing like it and but I don't want
people to have to do things like I'm
conflicted on that too I don't want
people to have to do that you know like
when there's countries that have
mandatory military service they seem to
have an amazing feeling of
of patriotism in those countries and
appreciation in those countries because
they actually do have to join the
military for two years or whatever it is
we don't have that over here yeah weird
and to a point about going up and
cleaning out clean out you know an
impoverished area at least then you get
to me yeah other people yeah people
outside of you you're circling your
bubble I mean yeah the amount of times
here when you talk to people about
Muslims whatever it is and you think
ours cuz you've never met anyone right
you've actually never met anyone that is
X Y or Z which is I moved to Brooklyn in
five years or six years ago and I moved
to Clinton Hill Fort Greene and I got a
few friends there have been there
forever and I said let this probably
sounds like a really stupid thing to say
but it feels kind of segregated here and
they were like duh of course it does
and I couldn't believe it you know I I'd
grown up on the Spike Lee movies and I
mean I guess they do show what kind of
segregation but I thought you know this
was the place where everyone lived
together on the scene to each other's
bodegas and restaurants and right I
lived on the dividing line between the
bit that was gang gentrified and the
projects you go two blocks that way
pretty much wore black you go three
blocks that way pretty much all white
with yoga studios and bougie coffee
shops and pets bars and and the two
communities just did not mix it wasn't
necessarily they hated each other all
right they just did not make different
language different everything right this
is seater peon perception that there is
a place where everybody's cool yeah yeah
and I thought it might be New York it
might be Brooklyn yeah oh it's probably
the only place that's closed right least
it has the reputation for it yeah
because at least in Brooklyn people walk
around I mean yeah but but talking about
amazing pieces of journalism over the
last few years there's Nicole Hannah
Jones wrote a piece about New York
school system public school system the
most segregated school system in America
we in New York really and she had to get
her daughter into a public school and
the choice was the very good well
supported school in the gentrifying
mostly white area or the bad failing
public school in the non gentrified
mostly black area where her kids
education might suffer and I think I'm
remembering it correctly but her husband
had a real fight about it because she
said no we got to put our kid in the in
the bad failing school and help it
get better and it's going to take years
and our daughter may suffer in the
short-term but that's what we have to do
if we're living in this neighborhood
it's an incredible piece Wow yeah that's
a the real conflict as a parent you have
children know when you're oh yeah I'm
sure right you're when you're thinking
of your children you're always thinking
of their safety you always worried about
them you want to protect them so putting
them in a situation where they wouldn't
be as protected his never your first
instinct oh she was in in town hall
meetings where you know progressive
white liberal parents who would be very
left-wing on every other issue hmm we're
really fighting to make sure their kid
went to the good majority white schools
yeah they want a bit of diversity but
not not too much diversity right they
want a black friend yeah yeah yeah
that's when people think of Brooklyn
they do think of it as being like the
most diverse place yeah and it's yeah
street-by-street segregated it land is
pretty diverse and land is interesting
you know because Atlanta has a lot of
there so there's a lot of well there's a
lot of everything in Atlanta but it's
it's a very black city in a lot of ways
but it's also a very white city you see
a lot of black and white people hanging
out together in clubs and bars and
restaurants and stuff and it's really
like much closer to like a 50/50 split
in a lot of places at least in some of
the neighborhoods that I've been to when
I got back to London this was one of the
few things I'm proud of about about
London yeah it's certainly New York it's
it's not a big deal for a group of
friends a family around to be to be
genuinely mixed hits that you would know
I'd ask you is that because London
didn't experience slavery the way the
United States did yeah I mean obviously
we have a you know colonial history
right of course but that wasn't in the
country itself right for a very long
time we've had a huge Pakistani
Bangladeshi Jamaican community and it's
it's you know I mean here if you have
black friends or you date a black girl
or you know it's it's people think
you're trying to prove your work
ruddiness there it was just normal
normal yes a London I'm not saying
England's perfect London
I I experienced that when I was in
London as well it seemed like way more
integrated yeah yeah and that's I mean
still five six years after I moved to
New York that's it's this still a
surprise well New York is a different
animal now New York is so fucking
expensive it's so strange and my friend
Judah who Judah Freelander who lives
there said he's he's lived there for a
long time he's like it's so changed it
used to be like a lot of artists and a
lot of creative people and he goes it's
now it's all financed people like every
go to finance everybody just wants the
most expensive suit and the most
expensive watch and they live in this
ridiculously expensive apartment and I
thought that went out in the 80s I
thought that was like Wall Street
America still very much exists that's
still prevalent well I was talking to
this guy yesterday who's a 26 year old
who's graduating with a degree in
finance and trying to figure out what he
wants to do and he's thinking about
moving New York and getting a job in
Wall Street but he's hesitant because
he's a nice guy
he doesn't want to go dark you know and
I'm like you could you could go to the
dark side like these people or look not
all of them but a lot of them are just
straight-up materialists they're just
chasing money when you're in the money
business and you're just chasing money
like there's your reward is things your
reward is objects and status and clothes
and houses and shit yeah and sometimes
you talk to those guys and you say so
what do you do I work in finance yeah
yeah but what do you actually do I work
in finance I'm very well rewarded
as you can see yeah but what do you
actually do oh I look for fluctuations
in international grain markets
congratulations what an amazing thing to
dedicate your life to you know and if
you just said what they do rather than
what the reward was right I think this
is ridiculous what a waste of your time
it is but the the status of being super
wealthy for a lot of them is worth it
because they don't have a passion right
they don't have a thing their dinner
trying to write a book they're not
trying to make a painting or whatever
the fuck it is yeah you know they're
just trying to make the money and
they're making the money so everything
is
great yeah coke and I mean if I rots if
I pulled up here in a you know a purple
Lamborghini with a diamond studded watch
I'd be like look at this motherfucker he
must be wrong people yeah yeah but not
that many people would be would be that
impressed I think most people would
think what a what a duel yeah yes sir
it's certain circles right it's whatever
circle that you're in yeah certain
circles I can finance circles it is
about those things more than it's not
because those things represent success
in your industry your friend should read
a piece of him even in a book by Michael
Lewis and he talks to a bunch of
graduates who you know are about to get
approached by the big banks and
financial institutions he says listen
you think you're going to do this for
two or three years yeah a few million
dollars and then do something worthwhile
with your life but what's gonna happen
is you're gonna get seduced and you're
gonna get the mortgage you're gonna and
you're suddenly twenty years of your
life will have gone by and you'll think
what the fuck am I just done with this
is the exact advice I gave him yesterday
the exact advice I was like man you got
to do something that actually makes you
happy
don't get sucked into that and he was
saying I was thinking of trying it for a
few years that's what they say yeah man
once you once you get a mortgage once
you get a car yeah nice BMW yeah how
much that run you a month yeah yeah fuck
man yeah it's some it's a strange thing
to the stock market the moving around of
numbers and looking for fluctuations in
the market and the fact that what drives
me crazy is when you hear that people
have gotten servers that are the closest
as possible to the market because that
the ping because they're using
algorithms so that everything is done
off of a computer program and the closer
they are the quicker the transaction
takes place and it actually can be to
the tune of millions of dollars that's
another Michael Lewis book yeah oh is it
flash boys yeah okay yeah these guys
figured out what was going on and then
they started a trading floor where there
was so much cable that no one could
benefit from those you know those
nanoseconds of yardage yeah the other
banks tried to close it down and it
wasn't that popular
Jamie was telling me that there's a game
called fortnight and all the kids play
and there
moving to Columbus Ohio so they could be
closer to there but that's one of the
places right access also so another
place where they move to same deal yeah
to be closer to the server so that they
could ping lower cuz it's like a real
business yeah but at least these guys
are playing a game it's a skill I mean
there I made $100,000 yesterday
play yeah yeah so I turned on ESPN last
night trying to watch the boxing and I
was boxing at my garden last night an
ESPN the main channel had gamers in a
stadium playing playing football on the
computer they have an eSports arena in
Vegas right at the Luxor it's like an
eSports arena the franchise fees for the
next season a Call of Duty or twenty
five million dollars of team which is
like four four guys on a team genes
playing the game and someone's gotta pay
for that Jesus Christ you were in Dallas
for the Earl Spence
Mikey Garcia fight yeah yeah Earl Spence
is the real deal I mean I felt Mikey
Garcia without books him for a few
rounds at least early on and then maybe
you know Spence his size and power to
make a difference but yeah I boxed in
front but I looked at them in the
weigh-ins I was likes yeah he's a lot
bigger yeah to weight divisions yeah
yeah well Mikey start his career at one
was at 135 he was featherweight champ I
think was his first bozos lighted them
yeah so was that 126 see pull pull that
up Mike Garcia see they fought at 47 and
Earl Spence looks every bit of 147 I
mean he's a big fella he looks like he
could fight 154 easy you know Mike
Garcia just looks so much smaller than
him at the win but it wasn't just his
size it's like yeah Errol's Prince jr.
is just the real deal with the surprise
for me he was incredible he's fucking
good he's so smart to like when you hear
him talk he's so smooth him do you
remember the smiley Winky Felix Trinidad
fuck yes I do it reminded me that yeah
look at the size difference and he would
have put on a load of weight yeah well
yeah I mean he's he's taller he's wider
he's more muscular and he's probably
pretty dehydrated making that way a
little Roberto Duran have his time his
life yeah yeah
yeah he was dancing at the weigh-ins and
share certain fighters were dancing and
he was dancing too it's pretty funny
what is he doing now is he like working
as he's helping them promote these
things is that what's going on he was on
this one yeah he was there we saw a
ringside
he's so beloved he's what a crazy story
that guy had right like to go for that
No Mas fight he was he was shunned
I mean hated yeah mass shame across the
whole world for years yeah until he beat
Davey more that's one of my favorite
flights of all ha brutal brutal just to
see that tenacity just slowly yeah
and I read a story that Tyson was at
that fight with all of his friends from
Brooklyn and they couldn't afford ticket
so they just rushed the security game
knowing that three or four of them would
get caught him and the others would get
in and that's how he got in yeah Wow
yeah I remember watching that fight
thinking that he was gonna lose and I
was a big Roberto Duran fan no thank god
man he's probably gonna lose he was
supposed to lose right as he bunted L
sure then he fucked Davey more up Davey
more wound up dying a crazy accident
where he was working on his car his
driveway and it fell on him yeah he fell
on him or I ran him over like one of
those things who's trying to fix his car
something fucked up like that and Duran
laced him at one point when he started
the leather laces yeah he thumbed him to
they think that's what you remember his
I swallow pretty bad that's one of the
fights that makes me feel a bit guilty
about loving boxing you see that cuz
it's through the fucking business man
it's a little business you know I mean I
don't know if MMA is more brutal I think
it probably is there's a lot of folks
that I in MMA a lot and most of them are
they're unintentional most of them but a
bunch have to be intention to thing that
gets me the MMA is cuz I come from you
know books is my sport when you see a
guy go down and he's clearly out and the
guy jumps women and pounds him I know
sometimes the ref tries to you know
that's that's just a bit too much for me
this weekend Jorge Masvidal
he knocked out Darren till and he kayoed
him he clipped him on the left hand on
the way down he hit him with another
left hand and then Darren till is
flatlined completely out in Moscow down
uncorks a bomb right on
face while he's out cold was right I
mean correct me if I'm wrong but I feel
like a boxing crowd appreciates a good
skillful technical match I feel like
sometimes a UFC crowd will be cheering
at that moment you just described I
think humans like brawls I mean there's
a reason why our oh god he and Micky
Ward was such a successful trilogy it's
because those guys would just beat the
fuck out of me they were so closely
matched and they were both these blood
and guts warriors and they just stood in
front of each other and they were and we
knew at the time that these guys are not
gonna beat Floyd Mayweather they're not
gonna beat the best guys they're you
know they're good fighters they're
world-class fighters but they're not
world champions and there's a thing that
we look at when we watch fighters like
fighter could be good but there's a
there's a fighters that we appreciate
but they'll never fight for the world
title if they do they have no chance
and then there's fighters like this guy
might be the best in the world you know
there's a difference you know and you
can admire Floyd offensive skills but
he's never gonna have that war with
Micky Ward or Archer again ever
but he's also gonna be fine when he's 55
he'll be able to talk and walk and you
know nothing happens to them to him his
he's not he didn't endure the punishment
the beatings that those guys had that's
the saddest of all is when you see these
guys you see them on television you see
the war you see the foot but you don't
see the aftermath you don't see the
struggles that they have with their
memory you don't see the the confusion
the the anger out of nowhere the
emotional outbursts where they don't
they don't know why they're doing what
they're doing they don't know why
they're saying what they're saying most
in the broke before they even retire yep
yeah yeah
did you see the the film about Michael
Benton I just came out on Netflix it's
part that loser series no I did not
that's worth watching he he never he
likes boxing never he wore into box but
it's got a really successful career in
Hollywood producing plays and movies
really yeah yeah yeah it took it's a
great Michael bent loses plays and
movies yeah what a play I think Andy T
teaches actors how to how to box as well
I don't know when they're doing movies
it's a great little good for him well
I'm always very happy when someone finds
a path
you know you just get the sense that
boxing was never him and he found a way
at the end to be him and do something
loved and he's thriving at it which
which is a rare thing for Xboxes it's
crazy when people are just good at think
there's a guy in MMA like that Anthony
Rumble Johnson who's one of the most
terrifying fighters in the history of
the sport just a ruthless knockout
artist and last his last loss he I was
talking to him in the Octagon I was
interviewing him and he said I know I
don't like fighting I'm not a fighter
because I'm an athlete I'm just good at
it and I was like wow that is a crazy
honest like in such a introspective way
of like he's like looking at him selves
like this is not what I don't want to do
this yeah but since then he's thought
about coming back but people say to me
all the time your adrenaline junkie
you're addicted to the thrill and
there's no fucking thrill doing this
work you think it's it's real you know
you know question enough I'm sure
there's no thrill for you but do you
think that being in these incredibly
tense environments ramps life up in a
way that you don't get outside of it
like did Yuri tribe Sebastian oh yeah
yeah and I met him a few times but he
was he was when I was having a few
problems he was he was very helpful he
was a really really good guy yeah I
really liked that guy
yeah yeah before I met him you know he's
got that picture in Vanity Fair like
posing with the dog tag and it's like a
model looking picture I thought ah sir
yeah yeah yeah and I met him he was the
nicest most humble considerate guy he
sees when testing over he liked that
book as well yeah I couldn't could be a
bigger fan of his he's a human too just
yeah just very genuine really there when
you're talking to him yeah but that's
sort of his take on it is that and if
you're listening I know I talk about
that book too much I just love it
but his take on it was that these people
experiencing life in this incredibly
extreme environment and then they come
back to the rest of the world that just
doesn't feel real anymore so it's not
it's not thrilling when you're there but
it is real drama you're seeing life and
death drama right in front of your face
so when you come back you think you
really want to see this person see this
film try out this new restaurant and
then you get back and you just each of
them care it just feels flat yeah yeah I
mean the you know when we're not getting
the PTSD treatment
numbness was the word that came out more
numbness to everything like numbness to
the danger there but numbness back here
for the things that should be
pleasurable and should be providing some
kind of relief as well now how did the
PTSD PTSD treatment get organizes
through maps are you part of that study
yeah we did a short film about about
rick doblin and this this you know
there's this effort to get MDMA legal
but i'd been in denial for years and
year than a new producer joined Visegrad
called Steve and Bailey and we had the
first idea where he was pitching some
some first meeting when he was pitching
some of his ideas and he mentioned you
know this breakthrough therapy using
MDMA for PTSD and I just involuntarily
put my hand up and said I'll do it
straightaway that gave me the excuse to
actually you know get some help and see
if how I'm done MDMA recreationally
before that I mean yeah I came of age in
London in the nineties like it was like
having a pint of beer then what is the
difference between doing it in a
therapeutic environment I mean it's it's
it's mdma-assisted therapy right the
emphasis is on the therapy so you're
lying in a bed if you've fasted for 24
hours before the therapist knows you and
knows your issues so knows how to like
politely you know gently nudge you
towards the right topic of conversation
but always makes it makes you actually
gets the conclusions right you know
there were times when I would ask him
why is this happening why do I think
this and he'd put it back on me and make
me put two and two together
mmm sometimes you listen to music
sometimes you put an eye mask on and you
don't sleep but you just you know have a
quiet 20-30 minutes but it's a it's a
very intense seven to eight hour therapy
session and the MDMA just enables you to
get the benefits and all of the veterans
and first responders who took part in
the first round of trials had been
therapy resistant and I think the first
round I think 72% of them got the
benefits and were considered PTSD free
after after the three-month trial so
during the three-month trial how many
experiences do they have one a month one
a mother's three total yeah
yeah and that I mean the best the best
example I can give of how this works at
the first veteran I met had been through
it
he had one session and he'd lost some
friends in Iraq and it felt guilty about
it and always thought maybe if I had
done something different I could have
saved them and he imagined being them in
in the first MDMA session
and they were saying to him why are you
ruining your life you're alive you're
healthy we want you to have a fun
productive full life and enjoy your
friends and enjoy your family and he
said that gave him permission and that
was what he needed he didn't even do the
second two sessions Wow
that's a what an interesting way of
looking at of course and that word
permission because there is so much
guilt yeah I'm just getting permission
to just give yourself a bit of a pattern
survivors awaken is real oh yeah yeah a
lot of people that come back from the
war that lost friends have that horrible
feeling that it should have been them
that they're not as good as the person
who died or that somehow or another them
being alive is the reason why their
friend was dead irrational thoughts well
maybe I didn't really experience it
because I came out unscathed
right um yeah which is one of the
reasons why I didn't seek treatment for
years and years and years because I got
friends who lost their legs I've got
friends who were kidnapped and killed
you know so maybe I've only just dipped
my toes so there's nothing nothing I've
got nothing to complain about what was
your number one issue I think the
numbness to danger and to pleasurable
things back here I mean I cameraman in
Mosul we were there when the Iraqi army
beat Isis and it was I mean it was
house-to-house fighting we were stepping
on bodies to get through rooms and at
one point I was with we were with three
or four Iraqi soldiers trying to get to
the river to cut off these two Isis
positions and they got a radio message
saying there's a suicide bomber and a
gunman running down the street towards
you know so we stepped into this what
used to be a shop that's all blown up
and smashed a bit and I sat down as the
two soldiers tried to shoot this suicide
bomber as he was running towards us and
someone said I edid and right next to me
under the rubble was an ie D the day
before I think or two days before two
French journalists and Kurdish Germans
had been killed when they stepped on ie
trying to get out and Xavier Manzano my
cameraman just said he looked bored and
he filmed it like we got that moment on
camera and I remember just looking so
bought and I couldn't give a shit about
the suicide bomber the AED I was just
bored out of my brains and that's when I
thought this is this is not a natural
reaction to what's going on around you
right now
what did you think your natural reaction
should have been I mean blood rate
increasing heart rate are we seeing you
know vigilance and you know and what did
you think at the time was the cause of
you being numb like while it was
happening I hadn't really thought that
much about PTSD I just thought I'd
become so used to this and one of the
things that came up in the in one of the
last sessions I did was I didn't think I
was important enough to get to get shot
on her and have medics rushed over to
help me and maybe a helicopter take me
out and you know um and I know that
sounds ridiculous now but I thought I
think part of me thought yeah you're not
important enough to have something so
dramatic happened to you you're just
you're just witnessing other people in
these dramas Wow
it's be right next to an AED and not
freaking out it's pretty crazy
yeah with a suicide bomber riding down
the street towards you I mean that's and
also you know people people one of the
reasons you feel guilty is you do get
respect for being brave and I would say
it wasn't bravery I wasn't scared and
then did it anyway I wasn't scared I was
just numb and just you know can't get
respect from other journalists from the
soldiers like who are you getting
respect from yeah or people that were
films yeah and it doesn't it doesn't
feel like braver it just feels like
you're you know you've you've become
stupid about the risks you're taking
so talk me through this therapy so you
fasted for 24 hours you take the MDMA
and then they just start talking to you
about the things that are troubling you
yeah so you take 125 milligrams and then
when that hits a lot I think it's a good
dose but then when it hits you take
another 75 well so overall that that's a
good dose and that keeps you up for you
know six seven eight hours and then you
know the therapist would ask very brief
questions just just knowing what what
direction to push me and I remember the
first session I mean I'd fought because
of what I now know was PTSD I thought
because of the job I do and because
there was this kind of darkness in there
I didn't get involved with anyone
seriously for a very long time and even
thought I'm not going to have a family
and kids and house and dog and you know
I just just hadn't even thought about it
just assumed that's not for me because
of the job I do right and very early on
in that first session after I resisted
it for about an hour and a half that was
really resisting it for a long time and
thinking it was even a personal placebo
but but there was this wave of relief of
just of course you can of course you can
have all that and it it felt like a
revelation because I thought that had
been close to me for so long for tonight
I know seven eight years maybe longer I
just thought Hurst
you can't do that that's not for you or
you can't put someone else through that
with you
what is it particularly about MDMA what
is it about I mean I've done it but I've
only done it once the is it just because
of the fact that it just alleviates the
insecurities and allows you to look at
things in a more natural sense you look
at everything as if we're just talking
about having coffee or water everything
is just easy to think about on a dress
and talked about and I think I'll
probably explain it badly but I think
the science of it is you have five
networks in your brain and and I was
basically in fight-or-flight mode so
much that that was the only mode I knew
so even when I'm back in New York if
someone walks up to close behind me I'm
expecting in confrontation I mean
fight-or-flight mode all the time so
your brain is ignoring the other parts
of your brain that provide context and
they say that bang outside is just a car
backfiring it's not an ID or someone
shooting so the MDMA just allows your
brain to you know all the parts of your
brain to communicate again you're not
just in that fight-or-flight mode so
once you get out of that fight-or-flight
mode you can then address things that
you couldn't even begin to address
before and once you've had these
experiences in for you as three
experiences they're profound enough that
you retain the benefits some I mean it
looks like I'm in the 25% that still
have PTSD after the three months but it
still helps enormously I mean the next
day they got me to sit down and do a
video diary and I was kind of saying
yeah I thought this knew this was a
revelation and I said you know what I'm
just I'm just smiling now in a way that
I don't feel like I've smiled for years
like it feels like my whole face is
smiling and this is the next day which
is usually a little wrecked yeah I think
it's two or three days when you have the
what we used to call a moody Tuesday
yeah two or three days yeah but there
there's no there's no come down with
this it's it's you know there's no
downside how they give you know come is
they give you five HTTP or anything
while you're nothing apart from the MDMA
I mean I well you have you have juice
you have water throughout I mean maybe
they come down is related to you know
people that used to take it would just
dance and sweat right all nightly
hydrate yeah yeah yeah maybe maybe it's
a shitty MDMA maybe girl shit yeah I
mean the yeah the ecstasy they would
have sold in London would have been rat
poison and breeze popped out and all
kinds of yeah so I know they're having
very positive results with this and are
they planning on implementing this to
the public in any time short term I mean
is this something that like people that
are listening this right now is this
going to be available to them fairly
soon it looks like it should be legal by
2021 2020 to the third round of
officially fda-approved trials starts
soon and that's the first one that
involves people other than veterans and
first responders if that gets as good
results or the first two trials which
I'm sure it will then then I think it's
going to be and because FDA gave it
breakthrough drug status there's nothing
that you know anyone can do to stop it
it will be legal by 2021 2022 that's
very good news for a lot of people that
are suffering yeah it's so difficult for
people to change perspective just to
have a break from the the normal sort of
momentum of your life and to be able to
stop and analyze yeah and that's exactly
what it did to me I was just in this rut
for so long where there was it was
impossible to look at things did you
think about changing your life yeah and
I'm thinking about a lot right now I
mean I you know III thought I would
retire after this this therapy but I
think I said it before that you know in
the first session I was planning the
next film next series like this is still
what I want to do I'm just going to do
it smarter I've got to take breaks I've
got to you know recover in between trips
and there isn't this pressure to be
where people are getting their heads
blown off every single time and then the
last one I did was about Yemen and we
spent a week on the frontlines with the
various fighting groups and got the
usual crazy fighting footage but the
powerful stuff was a woman who had her
leg blown off by an airstrike in an IDP
camp in a miserable IDP camp where the
Saudis Emiratis acclaiming they're
providing people with everything they
need and then at the end a child
malnutrition clinic right on the front
line where a nurse just just begged all
parties to end this war and she was she
was literally on the front line
surrounded by a minefield couldn't get
doctors couldn't get supplies had a few
dozen kids in this clinic that she was
just managing to keep alive you know
these wailing emaciated babies with
their rib cages caged it caved in and
you know the reason you do this is to
cover the effects of war it's not to get
crazy footage of explosions and
shootouts it's the effect of war on
civilians you know so maybe the answer
is to do that and and you know not feel
this pressure to just get the crazy
fighting footage all the time in our
country Yemen is in many ways mostly
synonymous for drone attacks drone
strikes is when we think about Yemen we
think about the drone strikes that we
hear about on wedding parties the
accident the number of people that are
accidentally killed the civilian
casualty rate is some preposterous
number yeah I mean no one knows cuz you
can't check these areas but it's in the
tens of thousands at least and it's the
percentage is also preposterous it's far
more than 50 percent right yeah I mean
it's it's airstrikes yeah so it used to
be us drone strikes on on al Qaeda's
awesome things now it's Saudi Emirati
airstrikes and with with US assistance I
mean we were until recently refueling
the plane supplying the plane supplying
the weapons but yeah they've hit
weddings funerals schools hospitals I
don't think that's that's by accident I
think they're taking an approach to
Yemen that the way to crush the
opposition not take out the military
leaders and you can't there's no
movement in history that's been crushed
by force that never works Jesus Christ
when you're over there what does it feel
like in Yemen as opposed to Afghanistan
or other places Yemen the actual
fighting is is much more low intensity
it's fairly small groups of guys at some
distance just lobbing shells eat each
other and there's you know there's
snipers and there are gunfights but it's
not as big scale as
or Afghanistan but there are regular
airstrikes that are killing civilians
and while the two sides are fighting
this this slow and bloody war the
infrastructure is being destroyed and
the civilians are unable to get basic
food and medicine that that's the really
shocking thing there and also the I mean
I knew that the coalition as it's called
you know that the fighting groups backed
by Saudi Arabian UAE were American
backed but you see American stuff
everywhere I mean em ramps you know
these million dollar bomb-proof trucks
I've only ever seen American soldiers
and Marines driving in Iraq and
Afghanistan you see them everywhere
there and that's a real surprise to see
that well how did Yemen become this area
that's so synonymous with drone strikes
like why did we approach Yemen
differently than any other part of the
world in terms of the allocation of
drone strikes there in terms of numbers
I don't know I mean I think for a while
the only thing the US was doing in Yemen
was drone strikes against al-qaeda but I
don't know if there have been more drone
strikes in Yemen than then elsewhere I
mean that's where we killed an American
citizen right that which got lots of
headlines right on purpose yes yeah with
no trial they just it was because he had
joined Isis is that what it was yeah it
was it was a very well known and popular
you know online presence rallying people
to fight but the airstrikes in in in
Yemen are you know and and you know with
with us weapons are that's that's that's
what's really killing people and and
meaning that people can't get get food
and aid there because you just can't
move things around there whatever came
out of that guy getting killed they they
basically no one was punished for it I
mean he's an American citizen he was I
mean if it was in America if somehow now
this guy was in the suburbs of Chicago
and they launched a drone strike on him
it would be front-page news it would be
a real issue but the fact that was in
Yemen I mean and again the legacy of
Iraq and Afghanistan is that now we're
killing guys like him with drone strikes
or Special Forces raids here and there
and it's it's happening almost in secret
and no one
this appears to be illegal I mean some
people are yeah you know you can you
know which media outlets you can go to
to read about this but I think most
people are thinking if that's if that's
the alternative to invasion yeah and
trillions of dollars and American
soldiers coming back with no legs for a
war we don't understand Brian I think a
lot of people are willing to accept it I
don't agree with it but that seems to be
what's happening now no I think you're
right the the other thing about that is
with a lot of these even though it does
seem to be illegal people sort of
shrugged their shoulders and then no one
pursues it and then it just kind of goes
away yeah
but there's some stories that for
whatever reason like Jamal shogi did not
go away and it's still still out there
like it was so egregious so crazy that
this guy walks into the embassy yeah and
just never comes out and they're like I
don't know what happened and then slowly
you start getting a different story and
then apparently there's leaked there's
audio and perhaps even video of his
murder yeah that ordered by the way by
someone who was hanging out with Jared
Krishna afterwards with apparently no
mention of what happened yeah now as a
journalist when you see shit like that
that has got a hit home oh yeah the last
few years but for journalists especially
you know if you're I mean he wasn't an
American citizen Ram but he did write
for The Washington Post
yeah and was a resident but but I mean I
was I was I was arrested in Iran for a
week a long long time ago and roughly
the same time an Iranian Canadian
photographer was arrested and she was
raped and beaten to death so the people
that are citizens of these countries
they're they're really really bearing
the brunt and again that's why I'm
uncomfortable if people call me brave
because I get to come home right and
with these guys you know they can get to
them and they can get to their families
very easily and that that takes a whole
other level of bravery and a woman who's
raped and beaten to death would was she
involved with photographer she's taking
pictures yeah yeah and the usual thing
with I mean certainly in Iran but this
is common all over the place if you're a
dual citizen working as a journalist in
for example Iran they'll accuse you of
being a spy I was a human being a spy
they tried to get me to confess to being
a spy
that's a very normal assumption out
there and how long were you in jail for
just seven or eight days I was out like
actually not too bad me psychologically
it was bad because they were threatening
torture and execution physically it
wasn't it wasn't too bad I was fed I had
a bad bed I was roughed up a bit I
wasn't I wasn't beaten but I did think
it could last months and months and
months and I did think I could go to
Evin prison there she put me in a car
and drove me to what they said was ever
in prison once and then just took me
somewhere else evin prison Haven prison
is where people have been tortured and
executed so they just drove a little
scarier drove me around for a few hours
to scare me and then took me to another
place here what were they trying to get
you to confess to to being a spy and
they said at one point they said do you
honestly expect us to believe you travel
the world collecting all this
information and you don't share it with
your government I said yeah that's
exactly how it works and they thought I
was insulting their intelligence by by
saying that well you are they're
covering we were I did a series one of
the first series I did was called
holidays in the axis of evil so I spent
my first four years as a journalist
undercover wearing a secret camera and
luckily I appeared on a couple of docks
with a guy who was not very good and so
I looked genuine next to him so the
controlled BBC two said give this guy a
series I was racking my brains trying to
think wanted to be a foreign
correspondent and wanted to cover up
conflict then George Bush made the axis
of evil speech and john bolton added
three countries to the list so it was
Iraq Syria Cuba North Korea Libya Cuba
with a six evil countries so we went to
all six countries me and one camera man
held handheld camera Shane actually saw
it and that's when he first reached out
and I started talking to Vice about
eventually joining them but kind of
documentaries from the streets up so we
were just trying to say you know despite
all the rhetoric about Iran this is what
the people are actually like and it was
it was kind of you slurred we we
interviewed a bunch of students who were
involved in some famous protest in 1999
where the police came in and smashed the
dormitory and burned them down and beat
them I think because we interviewed them
we were then tracked and
Wow so how'd you get it free how did I
get how did you get free its I didn't
know at the time if to come ten
countries have diplomatic relations
it's only a big deal after a week so on
the night of the seventh day all that or
the eighth day they they let me go oh
yeah but I had no idea at the time I
thought this could go on months and
months and months now when you were over
there in around what is their perception
of the United States when you talk to
the young people over there oh love the
United States real music Culture Sports
everything I never the extremely well
educated about the United States
American foreign policy is a completely
different discussion but I mean one of
the things we tried to cover was the
Friday rally at Tehran University where
you see everyone chanting death to
America death to Israel mm-hmm and we
wanted to cover it because they bus in
old men from the countryside you sit
there gonna yeah death to America death
to Israel yet it's not something to be
so just some propaganda staged event
yeah I mean you know if there was a
turning point in the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars and with Iran Ryan
Crocker who was you know former
ambassador to Saudi Arabia Israel Iraq
Afghanistan a straight after 9/11 he was
sent to Geneva where a number of
countries affected by the refugee crisis
were meeting to discuss how to deal with
it
one of the countries are on so they have
this meeting and then he and his Iranian
counterpart would disappear for he says
seven or eight hours over tea to discuss
the future of American Iran relations
they knew that they were going to get
rid of the Taliban so the Iranians said
okay here's a map of the Taliban leaders
homes if you take out those homes on day
one Taliban have finished and Ryan
Crocker said oh thank you can I can I
take notes from this map they said the
map is yours we made it for you gave him
the map let the Americans use Iranian
airspace and handed over some prisoners
they were absolutely key in us
overthrowing the Taliban so quickly and
Ryan Crocker was making good progress
and then talking about the future of
Iraq post-saddam one night he gets a
knock on his door hmm
and two of his staffers come in and say
boss you're you're really not gonna like
what's just happened nice
what just happened and it was the axis
of evil speech so the moderates
so-called in Iran who had fought hard to
get permission to negotiate with the
Great Satan the US said you've made us
look stupid you know it was hard for us
to get this chance we helped you in
Afghanistan we were willing to discuss
future relations between our two
countries and and this is this is what
happens so it's over Wow and then fairly
soon after that obviously there's the
invasion of Iraq and Iran is sponsoring
the insurgency and giving them
sophisticated IEDs and all that rather
than you know potentially helping so you
think that with Wow with one speech yeah
the whole thing shifted yeah so they
would they would have been willing to
somehow or another negotiate or
cooperate or I mean it working alongside
getting rid of Saddam was obviously in
their interest yeah brutal eight yeah
yeah with it we have a very strange
relationship with Iran I mean going back
to the hostages from you know the Jimmy
Carter era yeah I do think it's one of
the most misunderstood countries in the
region I mean when you actually go there
you know the people are so smart and so
educated and and and potentially such
such good allies so what is the the key
issue it's the government yeah yeah yeah
and you know what I just explained right
I think they're capable of thing being
far more rational than the speeches by
the crazy old mullahs would would
suggest oh I mean if they proved him
yeah and the idea that the Saudis
Emiratis can somehow bomb the Houthis in
Yemen into submission and push back
Iranian influence on their southern
border is ridiculous that's just never
going to happen and and I think even if
you ignore the obvious moral argument
just from a pragmatic point of view the
idea that we should back this
unconditionally is is ridiculous
see this is just part of the real
problem when you're dealing with world
advanced is trying to parse all this
stuff out and look at so many different
stories from so many different parts of
the world in so many different areas of
conflict and it's almost impossible to
pay attention to it all every time I
meet people from these countries I'm
I feel like a fraud because there's so
much that they know that I don't know
and that I should write and you know I
get paid to do this I get paid to pay
attention to this for a living and I
feel out of my depth regularly and
that's focusing on the five or six
countries that I focus on let alone
everything else what other countries do
you focus on I mean the last few years
has been Congo quite a bit Afghanistan
mostly Iraq Yemen I've focused on a lot
of the last three four years they're the
main ones been to Brazil recently been
to Central African Republic recently but
now I've talked to a friend of mine
who's from Brazil who has a completely
different take on the new leader of
Brazil like he's more positive about it
and then I've talked to other people
that say he's a monster yeah I mean if
people in Brazil are living through the
current chaos I can understand why they
might go to a DJ type figure to say it's
gonna be messy but he's gonna clean out
right but he certainly seems like a
monster yeah
and they they're experiencing some crazy
economic crisis as well yeah and it was
the fastest growing in Latin America was
booming yeah I was abused just a few
years yeah so it's like this roller
coaster ride we did a film there
recently and I might might get the
numbers slightly wrong but the amount of
people that were murdered in Brazil in
2017 I believe it was was double more
than double the amount that were
murdered in Syria Jesus yeah I got a 70
mm yeah and after the World Cup and
Olympics the the trafficking gangs and
the the police militias just retook all
of those areas that were pacified to you
know protect the tourists during the the
World Cup the Olympics so that violence
has just come right back to the favelas
so again there's just so much shit to
pay attention to yeah
and Rio the image of Rio is still you
know sambar on the beach yeah nice I've
been a few times right
yeah I've been hurt UFC events beautiful
people very nice very friendly but then
you go two or three miles up into the
hills yeah it's another world
well we drove when you land at the
airport you drive through the favelas on
the way to Rio and you're like whoa this
is this is a different kind of power
and during the World Cup and Olympics
they put billboards next to that road to
block the view of the favelas did their
and those billboards are now starting to
fall apart and you can now say Oh seeing
again yeah Wow and you can hear it if
you if you stay close to there you'll
hear I mean we went into the favelas
many times we saw one guy who was
suspected of being a police informer so
the the trafficking gangs had captured
him slashed at his leg so he was lying
on the ground put four rifles to his
head and just unloaded and his chin was
still kind of where it should be but
everything else was this is when you you
got there one we got there right
afterwards sorry now we didn't witness
it happening and we got there right
afterwards but yeah it's it's I mean
hideous violence there on a massive
scale yeah and also I got into an
argument on the other day about this um
deeply racist you know the rich people
in Ipanema tend to be white European
descendants the poor kids getting shot
in the favelas almost all black and if
you walk into a bar in Ipanema with a
black girl everyone will assume she's a
prostitute if you walk into a bar and if
an Emer with a black guy everyone will
assume he's a drug dealer
and again the exact opposite of the
public image of Brazil it Benina is the
more wealthy area because there is yeah
that's the very best the very wealthy
nice beach area nice hotels and
apartment blocks but they still must get
robbed all the time down there right it
used to be that the violence was
separated from the really rich areas but
there are now a lot of wealthy
Brazilians leaving because it's it's
it's affecting everywhere now I mean
that the one of the experts we
interviewed in in the last film said I
believe it was one in three Rio
residents will get caught in crossfire
at some point over the course of a year
I might be wrong in that believe it was
one really year yeah yeah but it was a
massive massive number yeah yeah I mean
if you're anywhere near a favela you'll
hear it most nights you'll hear shots
being fired most nights and not like
boom boom boom you know you'll hear a
fight going on Jesus Christ how much
time do you spend over there three weeks
I believe it was Wow and what are you
covering
we did a film about the pacification
campaign the police and army clearing
the favelas before the World Cup and
Olympics so we went back just to see
just to sort of illuminate it for people
that think that this is what Brazil's
actually like and see what yeah what
happened afterwards right and those
areas were abandoned as soon as the
World Cup and Olympics were over dude I
don't know how you do this you're so
friendly to it's so easygoing Olivia you
seem so peaceful like you don't seem
like a shocked guy you know you really
don't you seem very very even oh that's
good to hear yeah I mean I think I still
have PTSD but it definitely helped and I
bumped into a friend of mine the diet
Dan Reid who made the Michael Jackson
documentary I saw him in New York a few
leagues Neverland yeah yeah why I said
Ben you just seem you just seem a bit a
bit calmer well what is your take on
that documentary I have not watched it
but I've heard that those two guys had
testified saying that nothing had ever
happened to them before this and then
then now they're down on their luck and
now they've changed their tune and
saying that it was they go into that in
detail in the doc and basically they had
been replaced by the new young boy on
the side and then Michael reached out
and said I need you to help me and and
they say it was exciting the idea to be
to be back in Michael's good books and
be wanted by Michael again so they did
they talked about that very openly I had
dinner with him a week before the film
came out and I believed them really yeah
yeah and and one of them certainly I
think has has what looks like the
symptoms of PTSD and the other one I
think went through therapy before he was
able to talk about this stuff so I don't
think they're doing here for for
financial gain what did you think about
the doctor Michael Jackson's doctors
saying that he was chemically castrated
oh I didn't I didn't hear that this is
something that we've talked about before
because his voice was so different and
to me I said a long time ago before his
doctor came out and said he was
chemically castrate I said he sounds
like a castrato he sounds like one of
those men who were taking his boys in
you know the 1800s and 70 chose to do it
the doctor saying I don't know that I
think the doctors saying that his father
did it to him I think
that was with this is the doctor that
killed him otherwise so take that with a
grain side right but they were saying
that he chemically castrated him to
preserve his voice which you know it
sounds preposterous until you look at
his frame I mean it did not have the
frame of a person who kissed her own
kids he did saw those kids Ananda's kids
they're definitely not his kids I mean
so it's easy to get the facts to fit a
theory you know couple those kids are
not his kids those are the whitest kids
you're ever gonna look at yeah they're
really white I mean they're not part
african-american I mean he we got to
remember before his vitiligo kicked in
he was very dark you know he looked like
his brothers yeah yeah looked like his
father yeah I mean it's um I don't know
I hadn't heard that theory before his
kids his kids when these kids really
haven't had many theories I'm not I
don't think that much about Michael
Jackson so I mean I think that's just
been pretty much established yeah that
his kids weren't really as kids and I
think his there's the woman that he had
children with I think I saw on the
record saying they never had sex all
right I think yeah I think they I think
they talked about that as well yeah yeah
I don't know but it's it when we had a
similar case in the UK with Jimmy Savile
that's the most popular that's that's
that seems even worse and the
documentaries great is a portrait of how
you grew him not just a kid but the
family as well and in some ways you
groom the entire country to the point
where if accusations come out everyone
says no not him no way Brian that's
that's how it works
well he looked like a monster yeah and
Michael Jackson looked like a monster
eventually but when we always go back to
him as a boy when he was singing ABC I
mean he was just adorable little kid
incredibly talented and so dynamic and
exciting to watch like God he's so
talented look at him and then in
thriller I mean everybody loved him but
Jimmy Savile looks like a monster in
retrospect I wrote to him as a kid he
had a show called Jim will fix it right
when he'd grant you your wish and then
you'd sit on his lap and give you a
little he got off flight
no no one thought he was a monster back
then no one but he was so hideous yeah
and and Louis Theroux did a great
documentary with him yes he keeps his
mother's bedroom exactly was it was all
the clothes hanging
yeah but I mean obviously in his
lifetime this was not discussed
questioned yeah like I say I think he
groomed the entire country well there's
so many cases like that where you have
this systemic pedophile situation that
doesn't make sense like how did this how
did this last like Penn State like the
Sandusky case like how did this law how
did everyone seems to have known about
it how did it last and people had seen a
kid in the shower
yes and hadn't I mean yeah you think now
you'd right
you'd kill yourself if you didn't you
know grant evene in some way I think
it's also easy to forget how much that
wasn't part of the conversation back
then though you know the idea that there
are pedophiles out there and it's it's
actually incredibly widespread that just
wasn't right that wasn't something
people were worried about back then from
my memory at least anyway no it was
church it was Catholic Church priests we
knew about that ever other than that
there was no discussion of like some
world famous football coach who was
secretly fucking kids like that you
never heard that I mean and Paterno they
thinks had to have known there's no way
he couldn't have known or at least been
exposed to some of it and to the
conversation we had earlier I remember
that that great documentary where a guy
protests in front of the statue another
guy comes up and tries to beat him up
just for daring to suggest yeah you know
this this hero of his would be capable
of that yeah people just you know they
just can't fathom it because they've
been so well groomed myself Penn State
football is just sucks it's a religion
it's so important to them it's into to
see that these people that were in
charge of it we're so fucked up yeah
Jesus man shows a bummer sorry but you
know do you plan on doing this MDMA
therapy on a regular basis and what what
sort of an impact do you think I mean
when when you go over the results of the
first therapy where you are it almost
immediately alleviates you of a lot of
your feelings but you still are thinking
about planning your next adventure and
your next project I'm probably gonna do
a full session like the therapist
recommended a full session which isn't
well that normally do but but said I
mean I thought I thought being able
to cry would be a major breakthrough
let's part of this therapy um and
actually you normally can't cry at all
I'm cried since I was 13 years old or
something 14 oh well that's different
because that predates your war
correspondence yeah yeah I mean English
culture it's you know my grandparents
fought in the war with tough-as-nails
it's you know there is this pressure to
be to be tough Oh
in the first normal therapy session I
told her what I thought was quite an
everyday story about an experience in
war to the therapist and he cried oh and
then the first MDMA session the
therapist cried I don't know two or
three times and the cameraman cried and
I still still couldn't get there and
then the third session I nearly did and
I my jaw was trembling and I kind of
thought all this there's going to be
this what would have felt like a
breakthrough and still happen yeah what
were they crying about I can't even
remember what stories you just said the
show's been a bummer like the stories I
just tell them that you know well I mean
I'm joking kind of joke but this is very
happy you're talking this is one of the
you know the the lesser symptoms of
doing this is you you turn up to a party
or a dinner or something you know with
people they're enjoying the South
ourselves of smiling mm-hmm oh this is
Ben Ben's just come back from from Yemen
oh what's it like in Yemen Ben you
really really want to know yeah tell us
and then ten minutes later there's this
dark cloud of the evening oh Jesus you
just feel like you're you know you're
just killing killing the there cutting
any mistake in your talk yeah yeah doing
that but I can t remember what the
stories were had that effect what is it
like when you go to dinner with fellow
war journalists what do you guys talk
about I'm not there's a few that are
really good friends and we can talk
about all this stuff there's a lot I'm
not I'm not that close to and I don't
like the you know the the mutual you
know and backpacking that goes on with
it and was that what it is I kind of
think you know if you're doing this for
a living like you you you shouldn't be
sharing stories with other people who
cover that country other other people
from you know from your background or
your country you should be talking to
the people from that country and a lot
of journalists I mean it's possible in
Afghanistan and
Syria in Iraq to have a pretty good life
you stay in the 5-star Hotel you eat
well drink wine every night and you you
know you you get information from each
other right and I think that defeats the
point of foreign reporting oh I see so
consciously or unconsciously I I'm not
I'm not you know I don't spend a lot of
time with with other war journalists
there there were those who were deeply
admire who I see every now and again
like Sebastian Junger but I'm not I
don't I don't hang out with him day in
day out mmm so there's levels to the
involvement yeah to whether how deeply
you're immersed and it's it's it's
completely upside-down in the state
because the TV new gen TV news
journalists aren't deeply involved and
just want to get that quick shot of them
looking like they're somewhere middle
east Annie right closest to the front
line with the flak jacket on their
perfectly ironed shirt and they're not
they're not sweating or even worse the
Brian Williams type situation yeah yeah
or on the roof of the 5-star hotel
sometimes you might see people report
about what's happening with Isis and
they're in Beirut right and I think
they're relying on the fact that a lot
of people don't understand that's a
different country right but you know
those guys some of those guys are paid
millions and treated very very well the
photographers and print journalists who
are immersed and are spending weeks
there are sometimes struggling to make a
living and aren't well-known and aren't
well supported what is it about the
talking head in front of the camera that
we want so badly I mean I think it's
it's it's a way for the news networks to
you know claim credibility and then when
you see them get deployed they're not
focused on getting material from the war
in these countries they're focused on
that on the two-way right I mean our guy
live from wherever right that's more
important than actually spending days
collecting footage of what's actually
going on it seems like you see that
rarely if ever these days it's more and
more rare it seemed to me that during
like Desert Storm in the 90s there was
always someone that was over there and
it seemed like there was real threat and
it was really going on but now
everything seems to be done from the
desk and you don't really see a lot of I
mean am i right about that yeah I mean I
think it mostly a lot of the major news
network said to their crews you're not
allowed to spend the night in Mosul you
know you can go there and fill
a street interview some refugees who
just escaped Isis charity but you can't
spend days on end there whereas the
freelance photographers and some of the
writers they were spending days on in
there and getting getting the real stuff
is it because the on-camera people will
be targeted I just think the risk is too
high
full-stop for the entire crew and
certainly if you know when the story is
really big can you send one of the very
well-known correspondents there then
yeah they can't be running around you
know filming house-to-house fighting so
when you're over there and you see these
guys show up and you know that they're
just gonna be hanging out at the hotel
and what does that feelin like yeah I
mean I'm pretty disdainful of those yeah
ask you have to be yeah yeah well you
see these films like
whiskey-tango-foxtrot about Afghanistan
I dunno I just don't recognize that that
world you know partying every night at
whatever bar a restaurant you think if
you're there and you're obviously in the
wrong place right right and it's not
it's not an adventure you know it's not
a fun trip for you of wild times and you
know it's it shouldn't be there should
be I mean for me it feels like an
endurance test every time you go it
should be hard and you should be
spending time with the people you're
covering and you know sometimes you can
you can think you've finished with
someone and just go for dinner or tea
and just by having normal human
conversations you find out so much other
stuff that you didn't go there to report
on yeah that's that's what you have to
be doing and then that takes a weeks
weeks of getting closer to them and gain
their trust yeah yeah yeah and just just
just you know spending enough time there
where you you then end up being in the
right place at the right time to show
something really happening I mean most
of all we filmed the Iraqi army
attacking a house where Isis was
shooting from the house and there were
three or four families in the house so
the Iraqi army shot at Isis or the ISIS
guys went down and encouraged the
families to run towards us and just
seeing that moment of civilians fleeing
an escaping Isis for the first time
after three years and when they turned
the corner and saw us they knew they'd
made it and they just collapsed at the
ground they were kissing the ground they
were hugging each other now those are
the moments you you you're trying to
capture just I mean I've never seen
relief like it Jesus Christ and how they
get them out of there what do they do
from that stage I mean they'll
eventually walk
out of Mosul itself and then there are
people that can take them to the the IDP
camps around there and we'll get them
you know the basic services they need
and medical services but there's not
there's not much of that there and that
that was the shock in in Yemen was the
places that Saudis knew Moratti said
were being so well supplied with food
and water and tents and medical
facilities just just weren't at all we
took no position we talked about Syria
early you know we're after the
population for as displaced yes you know
you're talking about you know twelve
thirteen million people here internally
displaced or over a fled
you know just unimaginable unimaginable
and it's one of the biggest
controversies in this country in terms
of what to do when the refugees come
what what what do you do some countries
are taking them in with open arms some
countries are not and there's a lot of
people that are concentrating on the
negative aspects of taking these people
into your community community um what
what is your what did you take I'm
watching all this thing happen why
watching all this I spent a Friday and
Saturday in in Houston with a group of
Afghan interpreters who had been with in
Afghanistan who got these special
immigrant visas and came to America with
their with their families I cannot think
of a better group of people who are
contributing to life here I mean on the
Saturday morning they were they were
running a food bank they've got jobs
they're paying taxes yeah I mean I think
we should welcome them with open arms
and I think you know despite our moral
obligation to do that I think we would
benefit yeah from from doing it and you
know it we turned away Jewish refugees
during World War two you'd think we'd
learn from that and say never again you
know you know I mean if you're if you're
an American Christian I think
Christianity is fairly clear and what
into it with refugees yes you know so so
the vision to not only say no to
refugees but also to vilify them and say
oh look a lot of them are fighting age
male yeah clearly Isis sneaking in I
mean that's a level of viciousness and
ignorance that I just I just can't
fathom the ignorance is it's it's very
pervasive right it's like it's one of
these things where we don't you don't
know you're you're reading these stories
and there
as people are telling you these are
fighting age males and that we could
very well be letting Isis in to our
country we very well could be letting in
these terrorist cells and allowing them
to come in but we also could be letting
families and that this is a country
that's made of immigrants I mean it's
one of the weirdest things in this
country that this is a country so so
obsessed with borders and immigration
but yet it's comprised entirely of
immigrants yeah there's a great do you
know Gary Young the British journalist
no he interviews Richard Spencer and
Richard spent Gary Young I think makes a
very similar point and Richard Spencer
says yeah but this country was built by
white people you know we came up with
the patient no no it was it was
literally built by black people
Gary Young says he says yeah but only
because we told him how to do it and
it's on camera Gary Young says you know
what I came to see you because I thought
you were the intellectual argument for
supporting Trump so I thought I'd
mention it Spencer was the he did why do
you think that I don't know but he says
you're not this is just ridiculous and
he just shuts down the interview turns
around and walks off good for him I
don't know anything about Richard
Spencer other than he always gets
mentioned as a white supremacist I
literally don't know what he stands for
what he does or what he says I think I
would say he's well dressed and with a
nice hat this is a yeah it's such a
crazy subject the idea of I mean it
would be nice if the whole world was up
to the same standards of health and and
prosperity and he didn't have to worry
about where you could go if the whole
world was essentially like the United
States where you could go to where the
good parts were you know if you live in
Detroit and you save up your money you
can move to Florida or wherever you want
to go I mean you can do that this is the
beautiful thing about living inside of a
country be fantastic if the whole world
was like that you could just kind of go
wherever you would prosper and wherever
things would be well but this the thing
about refugees and other countries where
we don't understand their language or
their culture and then you get scared
because you hear the
were worried about Muslim terrorists and
it's again it's one more piece of
information that just it just overwhelms
you one more one more thing to
concentrate on there is a difference
with Muslims in the Catholic Church and
child abuse scandal yes did a lot of
people say are there for all Christians
are suspicious and all Christians are
secretly pedophiles right they're just
not telling us no they didn't they
didn't but they deal with what's fear of
the unknown you know it's a lot of it
the languages and the the fact that
we're you know there's also this there
has to be this feeling that we've
invaded their country several countries
and been there for a long time and
there's a deep-seated resentment that
you know there's the thought of every
time you accidentally blow up a wedding
party with a drone every time you kill
civilians every times in collateral
damage you're creating untold numbers of
people that hate the United States you'd
think that I'd you know having traveled
too much of those countries I don't see
don't see that and yesterday I was
interviewing the Afghan interpreters and
I said what do you think about
negotiating with the Taliban I mean in
one case a good friend of mine called
Soroush who's now living in in Houston I
said you know these guys killed your
brother because you were working for the
Americans as an interpreter so how do
you feel about the Americans now doing a
deal with the Taliban and what about if
the u.s. leaves and the Taliban finishes
off the government and then comes after
your family he said you know what
America is not gonna let that happen
America has so much power and knows what
to do that they will make sure that any
agreement they reach with the Taliban
will be enforceable and it will be safe
he had so much faith in me far more than
me Wow and that's that's what I hear far
more often than the opposite is it does
that really depend on where you go I
mean cause if you go certain places
people have a lot of faith in Trump you
know like Donald Trump's gonna protect
us from evil there's play places where
you go that I mean it's become a cliche
but but I do think you'll you'll find a
lot of places critical of American
foreign policy mm-hmm that doesn't mean
they're critical of America I know
Halladay parse that out I think I mean
Vietnam I think is a good example
we have defeated communism or communism
has been defeated in Vietnam just
because the new generation grow up and
think Western culture communism I know
which one I want is a simple choice yeah
and I think that young generation is is
making that very simple choice and it
could just mean democracy and you think
that is in Afghanistan as well yeah that
they're recognizing that Western culture
provides more freedom and more Economic
Opportunity more prosperity yeah and I
haven't heard apart from from the
Taliban I haven't heard much
anti-american feeling in Afghanistan at
all really I'm also a lot of that I mean
maybe I'm biased because a lot of the
people I'm talking to had interactions
with with Americans mmm
but they would even say as many mistakes
as were made in the Prosecuting of the
war with airstrikes and nitrates and all
that the American soldiers and Marines
we met we knew were good people and and
like I said with Roach my interpreter
it's it's incredible how many people
still believe that to this day there are
conspiracy theories so for example in
Iraq you'll hear a lot of people say
well Isis must have been part of
America's plan incompetence cannot
explain what happened in Iraq this
cannot be a mistake yeah a lot of people
believe that a lot of people believe
that over here as well right yeah but
that still doesn't mean they'll hate all
Americans in America and it means a lot
them would love to visit and maybe even
come and live here is that anything that
you take seriously though those
conspiracy theories is there any
validity to any lifestyle the massive
failures in Iraq and Afghanistan have
done massive damage to the US on the
world stage there's no way the u.s.
benefits from from what's what's
happened I mean you know the Taliban
would have done a deal in 2002 where
they got almost nothing 18 years later a
trillion dollars later tens of thousands
of lives later we're now in negotiating
with the Taliban where they might get a
very good deal that's a massive
humiliation for the US and also Iran
Russia is below others know that the
u.s. is not going to intervene in lots
of countries so they're doing whatever
they want and almost gloating about it
knowing full well that America just
doesn't have this have the public
support to intervene anywhere else for a
very long time
what's the predominant conspiracy
that they want to prolong this war
because of the military-industrial
complex because they're they're spending
tons of money and yeah gaining contracts
and oil obviously in a row how many
Karzai as I said to me do you think
America failed in Afghanistan I said of
course I do like every film have maids
like young explains exactly how and he
says now I think I think this is exactly
what they want they want this being
attacked on all sides by extremists so
we will bow to their to their every wish
and what do you say to that I mean you
know he's he's met far more senior
people than me so it's hard to argue
with him but yeah I don't give that
theory any any thought well that's the
creepiest thought whatsoever is that the
government wants his perpetual Wars I
mean that is the scariest conspiracy
theory I'm not saying I support it but
if you wanted to consider a conspiracy
theory that's truly terrifying it's that
they keep perpetual Wars going on so
that they can profit and you know George
HW Bush Bill Clinton benefited from
airstrikes you know there's a quick
possible bump in terms of your approval
ratings now that's that's improving many
times but these wars Iraq and
Afghanistan you know having gone so long
yeah and resulted in and I think a
humiliating defeat in both countries
no one's were anything from them well
there's a numbness that this country has
towards them now it's been so many
generations it's been so many years
there's so many I mean what what order
the numbers of troops that have gone
over to Afghanistan and Iraq and come
back just and not come back to this
isn't staggering and those towns they
fought for Fallujah in Iraq Helmand
province in Afghanistan
are now back in the hands of the Taliban
in that's not even news here no all
those places Marja that the place I
described earlier is now back in the
hands of the Taliban I've been you know
since I went there with the US Marines I
I don't remember seeing a headline about
them no no it's conveniently ignored
because the public I just you know you
know I've had so long I've seen people
come back in body bags or without legs
and thinking I don't even know what
victory looks like now I don't even know
what the point of this is is anymore
yeah where are we
16 years in is that what it is no
Afghanistan is 18
18 yeah I mean they say the longest war
in American history the first four or
five years we went to Iraq very quickly
and weren't doing very much in
Afghanistan so you know I'd argue it's
not an 1819 year war but it's it's a
very long and very costly war does this
ever give you this feeling of
hopelessness like do you look at
yourself forty years down the line still
doing this like how do you how do you
how do you approach this I think about
that and I also think about just selling
everything I have and getting a little
house in Jamaica and just drinking beer
and relaxing yeah I think I tried to do
my bit I'm not sure how much of a bit I
did but but yeah like it's it's it's it
you can get that feeling very easily
yeah I would imagine that you you see so
much and you see so much anguish and so
much pain and suffering and death and
war and so much of it seems pointless
that after a while you might want to
just detach disconnect and you said it
earlier you know when you read the
numbers hear the stories yeah I just I
can't even take it serious anymore I
mean I can take it seriously but I can't
fathom it I can't really really imagine
what that's like
yeah and I've seen it with my own eyes
and even then it's it's it's so hard to
process do you have an exit strategy no
I mean I could make documentaries about
other things but I just don't think it
would be this this feels urgent to me
yeah you know and I question how useful
this work is but it feels somewhat
useful it certainly feels like the most
useful thing I can do for now
I'm not a doctor I'm not you know I'm
not a politician so even if it's not
that much use it's somewhat useful well
there's also the problem that you've
you've dedicated so much of your time to
I do think it's very useful you've
dedicated so much time doing this that
if you were to make you know documentary
on something frivolous oh this guy's a
cabinetmaker how do you do it Bob yeah
yeah yeah you might lose your fucking
mind I mean I don't think you'd once
you've experienced what you've
experienced it's probably very very
difficult to look at the the world
through a normal lens and be satisfied
with normal results
and it would be easy to dismiss anything
else you did as being frivolous you know
comparison to covering Yemen or
Afghanistan or Congo or wherever so do
you essentially just take it project by
project and just keep going yeah I mean
I'm I'm thinking about this everyday
right now because like I said in the in
that first MDMA so yeah I thought this
is what you want to do this is this is
what you care about this is where your
art is so I'm pretty sure I'm gonna keep
on doing it just maybe doing it in a
different way I'm also really tempted
just to try and take you know three
months off I go to Costa Rica and surf
and do yoga and read nice books and just
just just then see how I feel one of my
favorite quotes is um is Nietzsche he
says credit no thought not had in the
open air while walking in in beautiful
landscapes wow what a great only when
you're in that state of mind can you
make the right decision so it'd be nice
to make the decision in the place like
that sure especially you caught up in
the momentum of these chaotic events and
everything he was happening that you
want to be I mean Isis are about to get
defeated in Syria I want to be there to
see it yeah cover it do you think you
really could take three months and go to
Costa Rica have you done that before I
did nine days in Jamaica recently nine
whole days yeah what was it like on day
two I I loved every minute of did you
really and I actually felt like my brain
kind of woke up yeah I just felt you
know that the numbness I talked about
earlier the worst thing is it just kills
your curiosity yeah
and that's that's horrible and it just I
just felt you know curious again I felt
like my mind and I read a couple of
books that weren't all related and I I
focused on them I took it in I you know
I was I was in it for the experience and
I loved it
why don't you just do that then take
those three months maybe in every
different view yeah I feel guilty you
ever think do you feel guilty
yeah yeah that's what I was gonna ask
you like do I wanted to know if you felt
guilty around day two idea I didn't feel
guilty on this one because it was it was
quick I mean in the past you know you
can you can go to a big fight and enjoy
it in London you can go for a big dinner
and enjoy it and love it but that's
about it you know a month of luxury
somewhere I think I would I would you're
not covering this fight when you went to
there
Spence Mike you know just I've made a
custom box in Docs I made a documentary
about Danny Jacobs
did you really when he survived cancer
in the night he became a world champion
oh why we were there and it was actually
it was great to be able to say to people
here's my latest film it'll make you
feel really good it'll inspire you that
so to contradict what I said earlier
that felt really good to be able to do
that maybe there's more of those in your
future yeah yeah I was talking something
out the other day about maybe a
documentary about the gym that Danny
comes from which is a door that leads to
the basement of a bodega in bed-stuy and
they don't have three world champions
Wow it's highly it's it's not a lot
bigger than this room really with a
lower ceiling yeah yeah real yeah yeah
and it's underneath the bodega yeah it's
a Saddam Ali you think is the first Arab
or Yemeni world champion he beat Miguel
cata Wow he got into boxing was a kid so
his dad who owns a bodega built this gym
in the basement and that's where he and
Danny came up that's incredible and
people walk past it and it's just this
door there's no sign and people don't
even know have you been to the Cronk gym
in Detroit no I have it it doesn't exist
anymore dozen oh but you turn up to the
building you think this can't be the
right place it's looks like a derelict
building I go down this basement you
know two staircase into the basement and
there's this crappy gym with one ring
and a few bag and that's it and then
Tommy Hearns walks in and Henry I can
one day walks in and you know over car
walks in it's similar to that
I heard Lennox Lewis on the podcast week
it was amazed he sounded great
it's amazing right good yeah it seemed
like there's anything wrong with him at
all I was wondering if chess is what's
helping him you know because he doesn't
seem to be sustaining any of the long
term and if he got knocked out a couple
yeah yeah yeah yeah he really did you
know I mean it's it's amazing well I
really do wonder because chess is so
it's so difficult and your mind is
constantly firing and it and the brain
in some ways does atrophy without use I
mean whether it's not physical attribute
in terms of the size of it but in terms
of its abilities the more active you are
solving polish Foreman used to do a lot
of crossword puzzles and things along
those lines
and he actively sought diffic difficult
little quizzes and puzzles and
to keep his mind sharp I met Quincy
Jones a couple of months ago oh yeah
he's learning Mandarin I think how old
is he I don't know he's in his 80s I
think 26 oh wow and by the way we had we
had a group of us had dinner and he was
the last man to leave he closed the
restaurant down Wow he's incredible and
I got into an argument about reo and
racism in Brazil in front of him really
and he said wait a minute I've been
going to the favelas in Rio since the
60s I thought here we go and he said and
Ben's right Brasilia is deeply racist I
just got backed up by quincy jones in an
argument it was it was great but he's he
says exactly the same thing
yeah so he does these things
specifically to try to stay sharp yeah
yeah yeah treat the brain like a muscle
yeah I think there's something to that I
mean the lawn I mean Lennox Lewis is
obviously one anecdotal case but man
he's so fucking sharp but that's what's
so frightening about the numbness that
comes from the PTSD is if it takes away
that curiosity it takes you've got a day
off and you think I'm gonna do a
crossword I'm gonna language it takes
away that that energy that's that's
terrifying
right the numbness yeah the the numbness
of people well people in extreme poverty
and extreme stress they do experience
that sort of yeah numbness especially if
you're in a dangerous neighborhood and
just you're overwhelmed like you were
saying about how the adrenaline
eventually wears off and then you know
just kind of you're in this weird grey
state yeah and imagine someone someone
in prison if you can awaken that you
know who knows what's possible but it
seems like there's almost no effort
rehabilitation no wakening that is is I
don't think that difficult it just means
the right book or the right person the
right film well there's a place where I
believe MDMA therapy could really have
some amazing results yeah we've talked
about it with with the therapists who
are leading this I think that's their
dream is to get in and do this in a
prison because I guarantee the majority
of those guys in there are suffering
from PTSD reaction are reacting to it
well and the majority of them have
probably been abused and come from
abusive environments and horrible
situations and
the the idea that we just take people
and lock them in cages and say well
you've done your time now get get out
and now you're gonna be even more fucked
up and now you're you know you're
habituated yeah you're used to being
surrounded by violent criminals good
luck in the world and we're gonna make
it even harder for you than anybody else
to get a job or an apartment yeah yeah I
mean it was just a story about Kim
Kardashian trying to pay this guy's rent
because he got out of jail and she's
gonna pay his rent for five years to
sort of get him on his feet he still
can't get a fucking apartment oh it had
the first bad yeah nobody wants them no
one wants to take him in yeah yeah it's
and we don't ever want to give anybody a
road to redemption you fuck up once you
do something wrong one robbery you get
accused of yes oh yeah and you're off to
Rikers for three years before we even
stand trial sure I read a stat the other
day I think it's 94% of trials in the
u.s. settled on a on a plea bargain
don't even go to trial and I thought
that was wrong I thought that can't be
accurate and while they scare people
yeah yeah you can plead guilty and get
five years yeah or you can go to trial
and you'll probably get 30
yeah we're just insane yeah like what
why would you give me five years if a
judge would give me 30 like what is that
yeah what does happen if I am guilty
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I know it's
insane it's just like that it's the
money saving sort of mechanism and and
in ensuring that they don't lose you
know and just they scare you yeah you
want to risk it all you want to 30 years
you won't have a life but five years you
will yeah you might get out and - yeah
be a good fella don't stab anybody in
jail yeah yeah what we do with people in
this country when someone commits a
crime is it's pretty stunning and then
when you factor in the fact that there
is actual businesses that evolve or
revolve rather around profiting off
people being incarcerated is even
crazier yep and no one investigates that
either
yeah I'm again there are some great
investigations ProPublica people like
that sure how many people are eating
them reading them that's a better way to
say yeah yeah something no what emotion
is there yeah and to your point about
you know
overflow of information it's it's all
there it's just yeah let's not at the
top of the pile and we're near the top
of the pile that's probably the last
thing that people concentrating on
because you're assuming these people are
bad criminals and you don't want them on
the street what do you wanna do you want
to think about all the good people out
there that are struggling concentrate of
them first yeah then what but this is
part of what's wrong part of what's
wrong as these people are in these
terrible situations terrible communities
nowhere out nothing no positive image to
model everyone is a drug dealer or
criminal it's crime around you all the
time you wind up in the system
you become incarcerated and then that's
your life now yeah and you're stuck in
this thing and yeah there's more of them
in American prison than anywhere else on
the planet Earth yeah and there's a
foreigner here that's one of the things
that just never fails to shock me
well anyone's got its own concerns too
right I mean there's so many fucking
stabbings in London now it's really
crazy yeah yeah I mean but compared to
shootings here it's it's nothing you
know it's yeah but yeah it's it's
definitely a problem and then you know
that you just don't see police on the
streets like you used to in London yeah
and you don't see police my dad was a
policeman before I was born but you you
just don't see you know like streetwise
policemen who are part of the local
community getting intelligence knowing
when you're and often you'll see I mean
I remember the riots in Brixton which
were right near where I lived and the
police would stand back let the riot
unfold and then just study video
afterwards recognize that guy will
arrest him three days later I didn't
think that's what Elise was supposed to
do well they want to protect their own
house yeah yeah yeah then how do we fix
the world I have no idea that you might
be MDMA that's yeah I know some people
that would would say that and make a
good argument for it and really believe
it it's a really good argument for
psychedelics remapping the world
there really is there's a frivilous yeah
there's a moment in the MDMA documentary
did we interview Rick Doblin you know
the mastermind of this come on oh wait
yeah it's been on at the end I say
what's the potential this if you get it
legalized
and he basically says spiritualize the
world world peace and I look at him like
he's serious and he laughs and says I
know it sounds crazy but I really
believe this is possible it is past
yeah yeah well not just MDMA MDMA is a
great doorway because of its
work with people with trauma but
psilocybin is as well and you know
psilocybin obviously comes with these
profound breakthrough psychedelic
experiences that completely not just
completely remap your perceptions of
life but show you a whole world that you
didn't think could possibly exist and
then all the other ones you know
ibogaine for all these people that are
hooked on pills it was one of the most
effective drugs or known molecules on
earth for alleviating people of opiates
I'm trying to get to me I've tried a
couple of times if that's what they want
to try with me next yeah I mean anything
that makes people compassionate and kind
to themselves as well as others yes yeah
I don't seem like that much of a jump I
think most people have it in them yeah
you know not that far under the surface
people are scared you know they're
scared they're tense and you know people
are just in constant states of conflict
I mean that's a big thing that's going
on in this world and one of the things
that psychedelics do is they give you a
brief break from that conflict you know
and then give you these thoughts that
you probably would have never achieved
without these drugs and that's exactly
what MDMA did with me it just removed
all of those all those fears yeah yeah I
think it's entirely possible I really do
I think it's a real there's a there's a
real case for us being able to set up
some sort of clinics some sort of
supervised psychedelic experiences where
one after another people start changing
and they that trickles down they start
changing the people around them people
say well what happened to Mike like Oh
Mike did mushrooms at this new clinic
that they're opening up and they're
changing a new guy he's a different
person he's so nice and then they joined
too and I mean I just think there's so
much room for that in this world it's so
difficult to change who you are people
rarely change they become a slightly
different version of who they were 5 10
15 years ago they rarely actually change
and then even to people who are
completely skeptical about this the fact
this is helping veterans yeah it means
that everyone is behind it well it's a
great way to get in yeah yeah I mean
they're very wise Maps is in
approach to this one particular modality
because if they can actually achieve
this you're gonna also achieve it and
help people that are in the they're in
the community that's least likely to
accept psychedelics right-wing pro-war
you know Magga people like those those
people I mean those are probably the
least likely if you wanted to generalize
yeah to accept psychedelics we watched
the fox news segment with Rick his house
in Boston a Fox News talking about MDMA
for veterans how did they approach it
well they looked at each other at the
end and said do you ever think you'd do
a pro ecstasy piece and they said no but
if it helps the veterans I guess we're
for it too right yes exactly yeah
exactly yeah yeah and if it can lower
crime rates to get people on mushrooms
I mean if dimethyltryptamine can change
people's perceptions there's so many of
these different drugs to that you could
introduce people to under a clinical
supervision setting where you could
change though I mean how many people are
involved in psychotherapy and it doesn't
do a goddamn thing to them they just
keep going back and forth or they numb
them up with pills Oh with me it was
sold off straight away you know it works
they doubled the dose didn't work double
the dose again I was just a zombie yeah
and that I don't have any experience
with it but I know people that have had
very negative experiences yeah with just
the world becomes all the bright colors
are gone and the world just becomes
weird that's exactly a delta everything
yeah and the great thing about MDMA is
it's not a potential opioid crisis
because it's a therapist sitting down
giving you the pill right I don't give
you 50 pills and you can abused it
whatever you want yes done I mean
logistically doing what you say is gonna
be hard to set up we need a lot of
therapists a lot of facilities but it's
it's it's it's possible well once their
success it and then it becomes a
business then it can happen I mean once
insurance starts covering it once people
start experiencing positive benefits you
can get it from both sides right you get
it from the commerce aspect you get
money starts coming in people start
paying for it and it becomes a business
that's successful
it actually has good results people
start talking well about it other people
start opening up these
these centers yeah there's so much
potential to this those people at maps
and Rick Doblin and all of his crew
they're really they have the real
potential to change the world
yeah and actually went the first session
when I was really resisting it in
fighting it I just imagined Rick's face
and the Met Office faces in in South
Carolina and just the kindness and
benevolence yeah and I just I just
thought of those faces and that's what
allowed me to just let it wash over and
Wow and hit me but Johnson and Johnson
just got permission to use to market
their version of ketamine and right now
the dose of ketamine I had was is about
$90 they're gonna sell it for $15,000
that's that's the danger of it getting
properly legalized and as you said
turned into a successful business
oh that's terrible yeah now why is it so
expected just so they can make money off
of it now this is the therapeutic dose
of ketamine in some sort of psychiatric
sort of sort what's the environment
they're going to do it and so they want
to have it very much controlled but it
looks like they want to stop the the you
know therapists giving it in the study
in their own office I mean which is
which is what's going on now have it
controlled and under you know in a
hospital sort of situation and then
there is a very good and it's not even
underground cuz I'm not sure it even
sure it's it's not legal here right
ketamine yeah I think it is illegal um
but there are therapists giving it out
now and I bought legally you know I
think you can oh you bought it with a
restriction real yeah yeah with the
prescription in New York oh maybe I'm
wrong his ketamine legal legal under
prescription maybe it's a schedule 2
drug or something along those lines I
was gonna get that someone sent me the
message about the $15,000 I'm what it
that's fucking crazy yeah ninety-two
15,000 yeah which is far worse far more
than you know the amount that Martin
shkreli put up the price right and went
to jail for yeah but yeah he's a
douchebag though it's easy to point at
him
yeah you know he owns the wu-tang clan
album yeah I don't know someone
got it man easy Joe I studied I saw he's
still running his business from like a
burner cell phone in jail oh that's
hilarious
well what he's saying is though what
happened the wu-tang clan album I
thought it was in possession of the FBI
that's in there that offer something
come on son that shit is hilarious that
might be one of the most hilarious parts
of that story the FBI owns the wu-tang
clan forbidden album how much did he pay
like a million dollars for it paid a lot
because it was up for auction heap I
think this says he paid two million Wow
you could never get that money back
especially if the tracks got released
but what a great marketing tool it's
worth more than two million dollars in
marketing therefore it's not released
confirmed he paid two million for yeah
but he's full of shit yes I bet he did
though I mean if I had to guess you know
I mean how many wealthy people out there
what ankled fans a lot yeah probably
probably a healthy bid healthy bidding
war as of uh this is as of like a year
ago the feds have it so I don't know if
there's an update on that there's always
I mean when it's an individual that's
like him that's easy to it's easy to
look at him disparagingly like look at
this guy he's a dick you know oh he
wants to raise the money I raise the
price of these drugs that can help
people fuck him let's go get them but if
it's Johnson and Johnson it's like yeah
first they make baby powder yeah you
know they're so respected it's such a
common household name and then I'm
calling it ketamine they're calling it s
ketamine s slightly different that
sounds like a snail right sounds like
escargot and it's a nasal spray oh Jesus
I know how different that makes it but
uh-huh
well it's better than shooting it up
because I know that a lot of people take
it intramuscularly
where you just jab it into your thigh I
believe yeah this is the drug will only
be given by accredited specialists who
must monitor patients for two hours
after administration I don't think you
just get it and go home and oh that
makes sense because I know Neal Brennan
did it and he had some very good results
from it
I took I've spoke to him a few times
he's tried everything he's a he's trying
he's great he's had he's fuckin
hilarious guy he's had some real
depression problems though he has some
very good relief from magnetic therapy
yeah and have you seen the involuntary
trembling thing he did as well no what's
the idea of that what is that I have no
idea
involuntary tremble are you sitting
there and shoulders just going they just
said it was great choose him up with
something nothing job just talking oh so
he just does it on press yeah no this
therapist in LA he gets him to do it
somehow and that helped him yeah I have
to watch game I don't know I watched the
three Mike special thinking it was just
another comedy stand-up right I had no
idea about that
that third Mike being the serious stuff
yeah I thought was incredible he's a
brilliant guy he's very smart guy and
his stand-up is outstanding and he just
keeps getting better but you know he's a
guy fighting demons yeah he's the
classic case of the comedian that can
never be helped happy unless he's on
stage killing you know and then you know
even then that's brief like he's just
never this jovial funny guy but he's a
brilliant comedian yeah but as long as
I've known him for many years he
struggled and it sounds like he's kind
of an unofficial executive producer for
a bunch of other comedians as well how
so like advising them and giving them
notes and it seems like a whole bunch of
people I'm sure you didn't get his input
people definitely respect him but yeah
I'm sure he gives people taglines and
gives him advice and stuff like that
very smart guy but to be as honest as he
was and not even end it with the joke
right you know just to tell the serious
story and then yeah that blew me away
yeah I met him on the Friday night and
watched it on the Saturday morning and
had no idea and it was it was one of the
best things I've seen for a long time
Wow yeah now he's a special guy it's uh
it's hard when you know I've had a few
friends take their life 3 in the last
year um and you know yeah you see a guy
like Neil and you know he's constantly
pursuing all these different therapies
and constantly trying to find some
thing that alleviates this depression
and you just keep hoping you keep hoping
you keep searching keep hoping that one
of these things sticks well these things
really see I mean he's very very
proactive he's always searching for new
things he's very open about it and
talking about it but the ketamine does
seem to have helped him quite a bit and
he was telling me like man he's like
this is so fucking crazy I'm going to
this doctor's office and having these
full-blown psychedelic experiences at
the doctor's office yeah and then two
hours later you're out on the street
feeling completely normal what was your
ketamine experience like I took a tablet
you put it under your tongue and let it
dissolve for ten minutes and then I laid
on a sofa in a therapists office for two
hours and I was out on the street again
two hours later so how long did it take
before kicked in
I don't really know cuz and I never
thought it was kicking in um but then I
just found myself saying things and
concluding things that I wouldn't
normally say and for the next week and a
half I just felt like that's just a
weight off did you have any sort of
hallucinogenic experience no nothing no
hallucinate no listen to listen to music
quite quietly but but and I you know I
mask on for a few minutes here and there
sometimes didn't talk at all but yeah
just there was just this relief
especially afterwards like in the in the
week and a half or so much much just
felt this just this lightness mmm and
you know to your point about Neil being
so open to trying everything even that
even taking that step is hard you know
sometimes even getting out the door sure
was hard let alone researching this
stuff and trying everything I mean when
I first moved to America I said okay
y'all not gonna do yoga you're not gonna
do therapy you're not gonna be
prescription drugs that's in New York
bullshit I have to drop that skeptical
skepticism and to try everything yeah
genuinely open to everything that's
that's that's a lot in itself well it's
hard for people to try anything new I
mean you have to respect any time anyone
does anything new the first time a
person straps on a pair of running shoes
and goes for a jog it's fucking hard
yeah it's hard to just do something it's
hard to change gears yeah what will be
curious enough to try it in the first
place you have to be open to the idea
not just be cured I mean in the case of
taking something like ketamine brave you
have to be brave I mean you're once you
take you can't untape they're on a ride
yeah they take the first MDMA session
was
as frightened more frightening to me
than going to Syria or Yemen or how so
um I guess the vulnerability I just
thought I'd say things and accept things
that the you know I put up a front
against for so long mmm
and it's a British thing I think it's
very much a British thing but it's also
you know my identity has been a tough
brave war correspondent right and you
can you can like that yeah Holmes
respected yeah yeah yeah and yeah you
know that I don't know I don't know what
when I had that you know feeling of
relief in the last I think is the last
no the first session sorry about well
you could have a family and the dog and
kids and enjoy it and be happy there's
also a part of me that resisted that and
thought no that's somehow taking your
foot off the gas and somehow losing
sight of what's important and what your
role is and what you can do to actually
help things you know yeah and just you
know doing whatever is good for you
well it seems so conflicted because you
obviously great get a great benefit out
of this this ability to help you and you
really do help and you really do put
yourself in these incredibly difficult
situations so there's there's something
there's there's a positive aspect of it
but for sure there's a price that you're
paying that's pretty substantial yeah
and I before the MDMA therapy I thought
if the price is you're on your own and
you're not enjoying the things that most
people enjoy then that's the price you
pay you know that's that's that's you
know what you want to do and you'll do
it whatever the price is
and so I'm open to the idea of that that
not being the case I hope that's the
case I hope it not being the case is
actually the case yeah Wilson Ben thank
you man thanks for coming in here thanks
for everything you do I really
appreciate it it was great talking to
you and I wish you well man if is ever
anything we could do please let me know
thank you thank you brother frame thank
you thank you
[Music]